Audio signal processing is a subfield of signal processing that is concerned with the electronic manipulation of audio signal s .
Processing methods and application areas include storage , data compression , music information retrieval , speech processing , localization , acoustic detection , transmission , noise cancellation , acoustic fingerprinting , sound recognition , synthesis , and enhancement ( e.g. equalization , filtering , level compression , echo and reverb removal or addition , etc .
Audio synthesis is also used to generate human speech using speech synthesis .
It is often used in signal processing for analyzing functions or series of values , such as time domain signals .
In signal processing , the above definition is often used without the normalization , that is , without subtracting the mean and dividing by the variance .
Britain usually refers to the United Kingdom , a sovereign state comprising the island of Great Britain , the north-eastern part of the island of Ireland and many smaller islands .
-- science fiction film directed by Ridley Scott , and written by Hampton Fancher and David Peoples .
Starring Harrison Ford , Rutger Hauer and Sean Young , it is loosely based on Philip K. Dick ' s novel " Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep ? " ( 1968 ) .
The film 's soundtrack , composed by Vangelis , was nominated in 1982 for a British Academy of Film and Television Arts and a Golden Globe as best original score .
Screenwriter Hampton Fancher envisioned Robert Mitchum as Deckard and wrote the character 's dialogue with Mitchum in mind .
One role that was not difficult to cast was Rutger Hauer as Roy Batty , Hauer rewrote his character 's " tears in rain " speech himself and presented the words to Scott on set prior to filming .
" Blade Runner " used a number of then-lesser-known actors : Sean Young portrays Rachael , an experimental replicant implanted with the memories of Tyrell 's niece , causing her to believe she is human ; Sammon , pp. 92-93 Nina Axelrod auditioned for the role .
Brion James portrays Leon Kowalski , a combat and laborer replicant , and Joanna Cassidy portrays Zhora , an assassin replicant .
Edward James Olmos portrays Gaff .
Director Martin Scorsese was interested in filming the novel , but never optioned it.Bukatman , p .
The screenplay by Hampton Fancher ! -- Not titled " Android " initially - See Sammon , pp. 32 and 38 for explanation -- was optioned in 1977.Sammon , pp. 23-30 Producer Michael Deeley became interested in Fancher 's draft and convinced director Ridley Scott to film it .
In ten days Deeley had secured $ 21.5 million in financing through a three-way deal between The Ladd Company ( through Warner Bros. ) , the Hong Kong-based producer Run Run Shaw and Tandem Productions .Bukatman , pp. 18-19 ; Sammon , pp. 64-67
" Blade Runner " has numerous similarities to Fritz Lang ' s " Metropolis " , including a built-up urban environment , in which the wealthy literally live above the workers , dominated by a huge building - the Stadtkrone Tower in " Metropolis " and the Tyrell Building in " Blade Runner " .
Despite being well received by fans and critically acclaimed and nominated in 1982 for a British Academy of Film and Television Arts and Golden Globe as best original score , and the promise of a soundtrack album from Polydor Records in the end titles of the film , the release of the official soundtrack recording was delayed for over a decade .
Denis Villeneuve , who directed the sequel , " Blade Runner 2049 " , cites the film as a huge influence for him and many others .
" Blade Runner " is cited as a major influence on Warren Spector ,
The film 's art designer Syd Mead praised the truck and said he was " flattered " by the homage to Blade Runner .
The PC game featured a non-linear plot , non-player character s that each ran in their own independent Artificial intelligence , and an unusual pseudo-3D engine ( which eschewed polygonal solids in favor of voxel elements ) that did not require the use of a 3D accelerator card to play the game .
A direct sequel was released in 2017 , titled " Blade Runner 2049 " , with Ryan Gosling in the starring role .
Dick 's friend K. W. Jeter wrote three authorized " Blade Runner " novels that continue Rick Deckard 's story , attempting to resolve the differences between the film and " Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep ? " Gray , Christy " Originals and Copies : The Fans of Philip K. Dick , " Blade Runner " and K. W. Jeter " in Brooker , pp. 142-156 These are " Blade Runner 2 : The Edge of Human " ( 1995 ) , " Blade Runner 3 : Replicant Night " ( 1996 ) , and " Blade Runner 4 : Eye and Talon " ( 2000 )
" Blade Runner " cowriter David Peoples wrote the 1998 action film " Soldier " , which he referred to as a " sidequel " or spiritual successor to the original film ; the two are set in a shared universe .
" Cinescape " , September / October 1998 issue A bonus feature on the Blu-ray for " Prometheus " , the 2012 film by Scott set in the " Alien " universe , states that Eldon Tyrell , CEO of the " Blade Runner " Tyrell Corporation , was the mentor of Guy Pearce ' s character Peter Weyland .
Bandwidth in hertz is a central concept in many fields , including electronics , information theory , digital communication s , radio communication s , signal processing , and spectroscopy and is one of the determinants of the capacity of a given communication channel .
The bilinear transform ( also known as Tustin ' s method ) is used in digital signal processing and discrete-time control theory to transform continuous-time system representations to discrete-time and vice versa .
In information theory and computer science , a code is usually considered as an algorithm that uniquely represents symbols from some source alphabet , by " encoded " strings , which may be in some other target alphabet .
In general , computational linguistics draws upon the involvement of linguists , computer science , experts in artificial intelligence , mathematicians , logic ians , philosophers , cognitive scientists , cognitive psychologists , psycholinguists , anthropologists and neuroscientists , among others .
The Association for Computational Linguistics defines computational linguistics as :
When machine translation ( also known as mechanical translation ) failed to yield accurate translations right away , automated processing of human languages was recognized as far more complex than had originally been assumed .
The term " computational linguistics " itself was first coined by David Hays , a founding member of both the Association for Computational Linguistics and the International Committee on Computational Linguistics ( ICCL ) .
In a now famous paper published in 1950 Alan Turing proposed the possibility that machines might one day have the ability to " think .
This work takes a computational approach via parameter estimation models to categorize the vast array of linguistic styles we see across individuals and simplify it for a computer to work in the same way , making human-computer interaction much more natural .
These systems , such as Siri of the iOS operating system , operate on a similar pattern-recognizing technique as that of text-based systems , but with the former , the user input is conducted through speech recognition .
With the proliferation of the internet and the abundance of easily accessible written human language , the ability to create a program capable of natural language understanding would have many broad and exciting possibilities , including improved search engines , automated customer service , and online education .
In 1971 Terry Winograd developed an early natural language processing engine capable of interpreting naturally written commands within a simple rule-governed environment .
These kinds of problems are referred to as question answering .
Examples include speech recognition software , such as Apple 's Siri feature , spellcheck tools , speech synthesis programs , which are often used to demonstrate pronunciation or help the disabled , and machine translation programs and websites , such as Google Translate .
Computational linguistics can be divided into major areas depending upon the medium of the language being processed , whether spoken or textual ; and upon the task being performed , whether analyzing language ( recognition ) or natural language generation .
Speech recognition and speech synthesis deal with how spoken language can be understood or created using computers .
Mental faculties of concern to cognitive scientists include language , perception , memory , attention , reasoning , and emotion ; to understand these faculties , cognitive scientists borrow from fields such as linguistics , psychology , artificial intelligence , philosophy , neuroscience , and anthropology .
Cognitive science is an interdisciplinary field with contributors from various fields , including psychology , neuroscience , linguistics , philosophy of mind , computer science , anthropology and biology .
In the area of language acquisition , for example , some ( such as Steven Pinker ) have argued that specific information containing universal grammatical rules must be contained in the genes , whereas others ( such as Jeffrey Elman and colleagues in Rethinking Innateness ) have argued that Pinker 's claims are biologically unrealistic .
As the field is highly interdisciplinary , research often cuts across multiple areas of study , drawing on research methods from psychology , neuroscience , computer science and systems theory .
It has also given rise to a new theory of the philosophy of mathematics , and many theories of artificial intelligence , persuasion and coercion .
Kurt Gödel , Alonzo Church , Alan Turing , and John von Neumann were instrumental in these developments .
The term " cognitive science " was coined by Christopher Longuet-Higgins in his 1973 commentary on the Lighthill report , which concerned the then-current state of Artificial Intelligence research .
In the 1970s and early 1980s , as access to computers increased , artificial intelligence research expanded .
Researchers such as Marvin Minsky would write computer programs in languages such as LISP to attempt to formally characterize the steps that human beings went through , for instance , in making decisions and solving problems , in the hope of better understanding human thought , and also in the hope of creating artificial minds .
In artificial intelligence , Marvin Minsky , Herbert A. Simon , and Allen Newell are prominent .
Popular names in the discipline of psychology include George A. Miller , James McClelland , Philip Johnson-Laird , and Steven Pinker .
In 1998 , CCS was incorporated into the University of Edinburgh 's University of Edinburgh School of Informatics .
Color categories and physical specifications of color are associated with objects through the wavelength of the light that is reflected from them .
) by the International Commission on Illumination .
Electromagnetic radiation is characterized by its wavelength ( or frequency ) and its intensity .
In 1931 , an international group of experts known as the " Commission internationale de l 'éclairage " ( International Commission on Illumination ) developed a mathematical color model , which mapped out the space of observable colors and assigned a set of three numbers to each .
The ability of the human eye to distinguish colors is based upon the varying sensitivity of different cells in the retina to light of different wavelength s .
The International Commission on Illumination chromaticity diagram can be used to describe the gamut .
Color effects are produced when a material is scored with fine parallel lines , formed of one or more parallel thin layers , or otherwise composed of microstructures on the scale of the color 's wavelength .
Computer vision tasks include methods for acquiring , Image processing , analyzing and understanding digital images , and extraction of high-dimensional data from the real world in order to produce numerical or symbolic information , e.g. in the forms of decisions .
Sub-domains of computer vision include scene reconstruction , event detection , video tracking , object recognition , 3D pose estimation , learning , indexing , motion estimation , visual servoing , 3D scene modeling , and image restoration .
In the late 1960s , computer vision began at universities which were pioneering artificial intelligence .
Studies in the 1970s formed the early foundations for many of the computer vision algorithm s that exist today , including extraction of edges from images , labeling of lines , non-polyhedral and polyhedral modeling , representation of objects as interconnections of smaller structures , optical flow , and motion estimation .
At the same time , variations of graph cut were used to solve image segmentation .
Areas of artificial intelligence deal with autonomous planning or deliberation for robotic systems to navigate through an environment .
Artificial intelligence and computer vision share other topics such as pattern recognition and learning techniques .
Computer vision is often considered to be part of information engineering .
Also , some of the learning-based methods developed within computer vision ( " e.g. " neural net and deep learning based image and feature analysis and classification ) have their background in biology .
Yet another field related to computer vision is signal processing .
The fields most closely related to computer vision are image processing , image analysis and machine vision .
Computer vision tasks include methods for acquiring , Image processing , analyzing and understanding digital images , and extraction of high-dimensional data from the real world in order to produce numerical or symbolic information , " e.g. " , in the forms of decisions .
Currently , the best algorithms for such tasks are based on convolutional neural network s .
An illustration of their capabilities is given by the ImageNet Large Scale Visual Recognition Challenge ; this is a benchmark in object classification and detection , with millions of images and hundreds of object classes .
Olga Russakovsky et al .
While traditional broadcast and consumer video systems operate at a rate of 30 frames per second , advances in digital signal processing and consumer graphics hardware has made high-speed image acquisition , processing , and display possible for real-time systems on the order of hundreds to thousands of frames per second .
Steven Sasson , an electrical engineer working for Kodak , invented the first digital still camera using a Fairchild
In January 2006 , Boyle and Smith were awarded the National Academy of Engineering Charles Stark Draper Prize , for their invention of the CCD concept .
James M. Early developed a vertical anti-blooming drain that would not detract from the light collection area , and so did not reduce light sensitivity .
Cyc ( pronounced ) is a long-living artificial intelligence project that aims to assemble a comprehensive ontology and knowledge base that spans the basic concepts and rules about how the world works .
Douglas Lenat began the project in July 1984 at MCC , where he was Principal Scientist 1984-1994 , and then , since January 1995 , has been under active development by the Cycorp company , where he is the CEO .
Douglas Lenat and Alan Kay publicized this need , and they organized a meeting at Stanford in 1983 to address the problem .
The back-of-the-envelope calculations by Doug , Alan , and their colleagues ( including Marvin Minsky , Allen Newell , Edward Feigenbaum , and John McCarthy ) indicated that that effort would require between 1000 and 3000 person-years of effort , far beyond the standard academic project model .
Increasingly , however , work at Cycorp involves giving the Cyc system the ability to communicate with end users in natural language , and to assist with the ongoing knowledge formation process via machine learning and natural language understanding .
) In addition to the taxonomic information contained in OpenCyc , ResearchCyc includes significantly more semantic knowledge ( i.e. , additional facts and rules of thumb ) involving the concepts in its knowledge base ; it also includes a large lexicon , English parsing and generation tools , and Java based interfaces for knowledge editing and querying .
The Cleveland Clinic has used Cyc to develop a natural language query interface of biomedical information , spanning decades of information on cardiothoracic surgeries .
A similar sentiment was expressed by Marvin Minsky : " Unfortunately , the strategies most popular among AI researchers in the 1980s have come to a dead end , " said Minsky .
Gary Marcus , a professor of psychology and neural science at New York University and the cofounder of an AI company called Geometric Intelligence , says " it represents an approach that is very different from all the deep-learning stuff that has been in the news .
Stephen Wolfram writes :
Concepts are used as formal tools or models in mathematics , computer science , databases and artificial intelligence where they are sometimes called classes , schema or categories .
According to Carl Benjamin Boyer , in the introduction to his " The History of the Calculus and its Conceptual Development " , concepts in calculus do not refer to perceptions .
Convolution has applications that include probability , statistics , computer vision , natural language processing , image processing and signal processing , engineering , and differential equations .
Digital signal processing ( DSP ) is the use of digital processing , such as by computers or more specialized digital signal processor s , to perform a wide variety of signal processing operations .
DSP applications include audio and speech processing , sonar , radar and other sensor array processing , spectral density estimation , statistical signal processing , digital image processing , data compression , video coding , audio coding , image compression , signal processing for telecommunication s , control system s , biomedical engineering , and seismology , among others .
Applications of DSP include audio signal processing , audio compression , digital image processing , video compression , speech processing , speech recognition , digital communication s , digital synthesizer s , radar , sonar , financial signal processing , seismology and biomedicine .
Dennett is an atheist and secularist , a member of the Secular Coalition for America advisory board ,
In February 2010 , he was named to the Freedom From Religion Foundation ' s Honorary Board of distinguished achievers .
In 2018 , he was awarded an honorary degree by Radboud University , located in Nijmegen , Netherlands , for his contributions to and influence on cross-disciplinary science .
This stems from Gould 's long-running public debate with E. O. Wilson and other evolutionary biologists over human sociobiology and its descendant evolutionary psychology , which Gould and Richard Lewontin opposed , but which Dennett advocated , together with Dawkins and Steven Pinker .Although Dennett has expressed criticism of human sociobiology , calling it a form of " greedy reductionism , " he is generally sympathetic towards the explanations proposed by evolutionary psychology .
In this book he declares himself to be " Brights movement , " and defends the term .
As given in his most recent book , " From Bacteria to Bach and Back " , Dennett 's views are contrary to those of Nick Bostrom .From Bacteria to Bach and Back The Evolution of Minds , Daniel C. Dennett 2017 Penguin P. 400 Although acknowledging that it is " possible in principle " to create AI with human-like comprehension and agency , Dennett maintains that the difficulties of any such " Artificial general intelligence " project would be orders of magnitude greater than those raising concerns have realized.From Bacteria to Bach and Back The Evolution of Minds , Daniel C. Dennett 2017 Penguin P. p164-5 and 399-400 According to Dennett , the prospect of superintelligence ( AI massively exceeding the cognitive performance of humans in all domains ) is at least 50 years away , and of far less pressing significance than other problems the world faces.From Bacteria to Bach and Back The Evolution of Minds , Daniel C. Dennett 2017 Penguin P.399-400
He also had the help of fellow staff and other academics , some of whom read drafts of the book.These include Richard Dawkins , David Haig , Douglas Hofstadter , Nick Humphrey , Ray Jackendoff , Philip Kitcher , Justin Leiber , Ernst Mayr , Steve Pinker and Kim Sterelny .
Chapter 15 asserts that Gödel 's Theorem does not make certain sorts of artificial intelligence impossible .
Provoked by predictions of a technological singularity ( a hypothetical moment in the future of humanity when a self-reinforcing , runaway development of artificial intelligence causes a radical change in technology and culture ) , Hofstadter has both organized and participated in several public discussions of the topic .
At Indiana University in 1999 he organized such a symposium , and in April 2000 , he organized a larger symposium entitled " Spiritual Robots " at Stanford University , in which he moderated a panel consisting of Ray Kurzweil , Hans Moravec , Kevin Kelly , Ralph Merkle , Bill Joy , Frank Drake , John Henry Holland and John Koza .
ELIZA is an early natural language processing computer program created from 1964 to 1966
Joseph Weizenbaum " s ELIZA , running the DOCTOR script , was created to provide a parody of " the responses of a non-directional psychotherapist in an initial psychiatric interview " Weizenbaum 1976 , p .
It was 15 years before the personal computer became familiar to the general public , and three decades before most people encountered attempts at natural language processing in Internet services like Ask.com or PC help systems such as Microsoft Office Clippit .
In 1969 , George Lucas and Walter Murch incorporated an Eliza-like dialogue interface in their screenplay for the feature film " THX-1138 " .
Don Daglow wrote an enhanced version of the program called " Ecala " on a DEC PDP-10 minicomputer at Pomona College in 1973 before writing the computer role-playing game " Dungeon " ( 1975 ) .
In the 2008 anime RD Sennou Chousashitsu , aka " Real Drive " , a character named Eliza Weizenbaum appears , an obvious tribute to ELIZA and Joseph Weizenbaum .
On July 19 , 2018 , ELIZA was in a brief mention by the protagonist of the movie " Zoe " to support his reasoning behind why his relationship with Zoe , a hyper-realistic Artificial intelligence , wasn 't real .
The Israel i poet David Avidan , who was fascinated with future technologies and their relation to art , desired to explore the use of computers for writing literature .
It was also featured in a 2012 exhibit at Harvard University titled " Go Ask A.L.I.C.E , " as part of a celebration of mathematician Alan Turing ' s 100th birthday .
In artificial intelligence , the frame problem describes an issue with using first-order logic ( FOL ) to express facts about a robot in the world .
This default , sometimes called the " commonsense law of inertia " , was expressed by Raymond Reiter in default logic :
Steve Hanks and Drew McDermott argued , on the basis of their Yale shooting example , that this solution to the frame problem is unsatisfactory .
Fourier analysis has many scientific applications - in physics , partial differential equation s , number theory , combinatorics , signal processing , digital image processing , probability theory , statistics , forensics , option pricing , cryptography , numerical analysis , acoustics , oceanography , sonar , optics , diffraction , geometry , protein structure analysis , and other areas .
In signal processing terms , a function ( of time ) is a representation of a signal with perfect " time resolution " , but no frequency information , while the Fourier transform has perfect " frequency resolution " , but no time information .
In signal processing , the Fourier transform often takes a time series or a function of continuous time , and maps it into a frequency spectrum .
This justifies their use in such diverse branches as image processing , heat conduction , and automatic control .
Throughout his life , Honda 's founder , Soichiro Honda , had an interest in automobiles .
Following the death of Soichiro Honda and the departure of Irimajiri , Honda found itself quickly being outpaced in product development by other Japanese automakers and was caught off-guard by the truck and sport utility vehicle boom of the 1990s , all which took a toll on the profitability of the company .
On 23 February 2015 , Honda announced that CEO and President Takanobu Ito would step down and be replaced by Takahiro Hachigo by June ; additional retirements by senior managers and directors were expected .
In January 2020 , Honda announced that it would be withdrawing employees working in the city of Wuhan , Hubei , China in response to the 2019-20 coronavirus pandemic .
The most recent school of thought on Honda 's strategy was put forward by Gary Hamel and C. K. Prahalad in 1989 .
In the early 1980s Honda returned to F2 , supplying engines to Ron Tauranac ' s Ralt team .
Between 1986 and 1991 , Honda won six consecutive Formula One Constructors ' Championships as an engine manufacturer , as well as five consecutive Drivers ' Championships with Nelson Piquet , Ayrton Senna and Alain Prost .
Honda withdrew from Formula One at the end of 1992 , although the related Mugen company maintained a presence up to the end of 2000 , winning four races with Ligier and Jordan .
The project was aborted after the death of its technical director , Harvey Postlethwaite .
In 2003 , Honda released its " Cog " advertisement in the UK and on the Internet .
In the mid to late 2000s in the United States , during model close-out sales for the current year before the start of the new model year , Honda 's advertising has had an animated character known simply as Mr. Opportunity , voiced by Rob Paulsen .
They have Honda employees as well as Danica Patrick , Christopher Guest , Ben Bova , Chee Pearlman , Joe Johnston and Orson Scott Card .
The film series plays at dreams.honda.com. In the UK , national television ads feature voice-overs from American radio host Garrison Keillor , while in the US the voice of Honda commercials is actor and director Fred Savage .
HAL 9000 is a fictional artificial intelligence character and the main antagonist in Arthur C. Clarke ' s " Space Odyssey " series .
First appearing in the 1968 film " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " , HAL ( Heuristically Programmed ALgorithmic Computer ) is a sentient computer ( or artificial general intelligence ) that controls the systems of the " Discovery One " spacecraft and interacts with the ship 's astronaut crew .
HAL 9000 is voiced by Douglas Rain in the two feature film adaptations of the " Space Odyssey " series .
In addition to maintaining the " Discovery One " spacecraft systems during the interplanetary mission to Jupiter ( or Saturn in the novel ) , HAL is capable of speech synthesis , speech recognition , facial recognition system , natural language processing , lip reading , art appreciation , Affective computing , automated reasoning , spacecraft piloting and playing chess .
When HAL 's logic is completely gone , he begins singing the song " Daisy Bell " and starts slowing down and changing pitch similar to an old electronic game running low on batteries ( in actuality , the first song sung by a computer , which Clarke had earlier observed at a speech synthesis demonstration ) .
During rehearsals Kubrick asked Stefanie Powers to supply the voice of HAL 9000 while searching for a suitably androgynous voice so the actors had something to react to .
On the set , British actor Nigel Davenport played HAL .
The scene in which HAL 's consciousness degrades was inspired by Clarke 's memory of a speech synthesis demonstration by physicist .
Marvin Minsky , director of the MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory ( CSAIL ) and one of the most influential researchers in the field , was an adviser on the film set .
In the film Brazil , the main character wants to be hired at the Information Retrieval department of the Ministry of Information , in order to learn about the woman who appears in his dreams , although the term is used in this context as a threatening euphemism for interrogation and torture .
In mathematical logic and computer science , the Kleene star ( or Kleene operator or Kleene closure ) is a unary operation , either on sets of strings or on sets of symbols or characters .
Knowledge representation and reasoning ( KR ² , KR & R ) is the field of artificial intelligence ( AI ) dedicated to representing information about the world in a form that a computer system can utilize to solve complex tasks such as diagnosing a medical condition or having a dialog in a natural language .
Frames were originally used on systems geared toward human interaction , e.g. natural language understanding and the social settings in which various default expectations such as ordering food in a restaurant narrow the search space and allow the system to choose appropriate responses to dynamic situations .
Work on KQML was led by Tim Finin of the University of Maryland , Baltimore County and Jay Weber of EITech and involved contributions from many researchers .
KRL is a knowledge representation language , developed by Daniel G. Bobrow and Terry Winograd while at Xerox PARC and Stanford University , respectively .
based on an example used by Terry Winograd ref name = " Winograd " to illustrate the programming language Planner .
Logic programming in its present form can be traced back to debates in the late 1960s and early 1970s about declarative versus procedural representations of knowledge in artificial intelligence .
Advocates of declarative representations were notably working at Stanford , associated with John McCarthy , Bertram Raphael and Cordell Green , and in Edinburgh , with John Alan Robinson ( an academic visitor from Syracuse University ) , Pat Hayes , and Robert Kowalski .
Advocates of procedural representations were mainly centered at MIT , under the leadership of Marvin Minsky and Seymour Papert .
The most influential implementation of Planner was the subset of Planner , called Micro-Planner , implemented by Gerald Jay Sussman , Eugene Charniak and Terry Winograd .
The fact that Horn clauses can be given a procedural interpretation and , vice versa , that goal-reduction procedures can be understood as Horn clauses + backward reasoning means that logic programs combine declarative and procedural representations of Knowledge representation .
Colmerauer was working on natural language understanding , using logic to represent semantics and using resolution for question-answering .
Edinburgh Prolog became the " de facto " standard and strongly influenced the definition of International Organization for Standardization standard Prolog .
Inductive logic programming is concerned with generalizing positive and negative examples in the context of background knowledge : machine learning of logic programs .
The earliest known library classification scheme is the Pinakes by Callimachus , a scholar at the Library of Alexandria during the third century BC .
Logo is an educational programming language , designed in 1967 by Wally Feurzeig , Seymour Papert , and Cynthia Solomon .
Logo was created in 1967 at Bolt , Beranek and Newman ( BBN ) , a Cambridge , Massachusetts research firm , by Wally Feurzeig , Cynthia Solomon , and Seymour Papert .
Cubetto was influenced both by LOGO and by Maria Montessori .
Another is a second-generation " Lingua Cosmica " of Leiden University , using constructive logic .
In 1999 , the astrophysicists encoded a message in Lincos and used the Yevpatoria RT-70 radio telescope in Ukraine to beam it towards close stars .
In the 2016 sci-fi blockbuster film , " Arrival " , Stephen Wolfram and his son were consulted by film production to help analyze symbols known as logograms that ultimately served as the basis for the alien language utilized throughout the film .
Important philosophers of mind include Plato , Patanjali , Descartes , Leibniz , Locke , Berkeley , Hume , Kant , Hegel , Schopenhauer , John Searle , Dennett , Fodor , Nagel , and Chalmers .
Psychotherapists employ a range of techniques based on experiential relationship building , dialogue , communication and behavior change and that are designed to improve the mental health of a client or patient , or to improve group relationships ( such as in a family ) .
Examples include control , planning and scheduling , the ability to answer diagnostic and consumer questions , handwriting recognition , natural language , speech recognition and facial recognition system .
Consequentially natural language understanding and connectionism ( where behavior of neural networks is investigated ) are areas of active research and development .
The debate about the nature of the mind is relevant to the development of artificial intelligence .
The India n philosopher -sage Sri Aurobindo attempted to unite the Eastern and Western psychological traditions with his integral psychology , as have many philosophers and New religious movement s .
The term is based on the Greek para ( beside / beyond ) , psyche ( soul / mind ) , and logos ( account / explanation ) and was coined by psychologist Max Dessoir in or before 1889.ref name = " EncyOccult " / J.B. Rhine tried to popularize " parapsychology " using fraudulent techniques as a replacement for the earlier term " psychical research , " during a shift in methodologies which brought experimental methods to the study of psychic phenomena .
Often this is generally only possible at the very end of complicated games such as chess or go , since it is not computationally feasible to look ahead as far as the completion of the game , except towards the end , and instead , positions are given finite values as estimates of the degree of belief that they will lead to a win for one player or another .
According to Chris Phoenix and Mike Treder from the Center for Responsible Nanotechnology as well as Anders Sandberg from the Future of Humanity Institute molecular manufacturing is the application of nanotechnology that poses the most significant global catastrophic risk .
Some effects could be beneficial , while others could be detrimental , such as the utilization of molecular nanotechnology by an unfriendly artificial general intelligence .
We are now in a position like that of the British Interplanetary Society of the 1930s which described how multistage liquid-fueled rockets could reach the Moon and pointed to early rockets as illustrations of the basic principle .
Marvin Lee Minsky ( August 9 , 1927 - January 24 , 2016 ) was an American cognitive scientist concerned largely with research of artificial intelligence ( AI ) , co-founder of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology ' s AI laboratory , and author of several texts concerning AI and philosophy .
He joined the staff at MIT Lincoln Laboratory in 1958 , and a year later he and John McCarthy initiated what is , He was the Toshiba Professor of Media Arts and Sciences , and professor of electrical engineering and computer science .
It was the simplest known universal Turing machine until Stephen Wolfram ' s ( 2,3 ) Turing machine was proven to be universal in 2007 .
Minsky wrote the book " Perceptrons " ( with Seymour Papert ) , attacking the work of Frank Rosenblatt , which became the foundational work in the analysis of artificial neural network s .
Minsky received a $ 100,000 research grant from Jeffrey Epstein in 2002 , four years before Epstein 's first arrest for sex offenses ; it was the first from Epstein to MIT .
The semantic network was developed in the late 1950s as a theory to understand human learning and developed further by Allan M. Collins and M. Ross Quillian during the early 1960s .
Machine translation , sometimes referred to by the abbreviation MT ( not to be confused with computer-aided translation , machine-aided human translation ( MAHT ) or interactive translation ) , is a sub-field of computational linguistics that investigates the use of software to translate text or speech from one language to another .
Improved output quality can also be achieved by human intervention : for example , some systems are able to translate more accurately if the user has word sense disambiguation which words in the text are proper names .
The field of machine translation was founded with Warren Weaver ' s Memorandum on Translation ( 1949 ) .
Beginning in the late 1980s , as computation al power increased and became less expensive , more interest was shown in statistical machine translation .
Recently , Google announced that Google Translate translates roughly enough text to fill 1 million books in one day ( 2012 ) .
Warren Weaver wrote an important memorandum " Translation " in 1949 .
The Georgetown experiment was by no means the first such application , and a demonstration was made in 1954 on the APEXC machine at Birkbeck College ( University of London ) of a rudimentary translation of English into French .
It is often argued that the success of machine translation requires the problem of natural language understanding to be solved first .
A deep learning based approach to MT , neural machine translation has made rapid progress in recent years , and Google has announced its translation services are now using this technology in preference to its previous statistical methods .
If named entities cannot be recognized by the machine translator , they may be erroneously translated as common nouns , which would most likely not affect the Bilingual evaluation understudy rating of the translation but would change the text 's human readability.message .
A frustrating outcome of the same study by Stanford ( and other attempts to improve named recognition translation ) is that many times , a decrease in the Bilingual evaluation understudy scores for translation will result from the inclusion of methods for named entity translation .
In Natural language processing , ontologies can be used as a source of knowledge for machine translation systems .
Other areas of usage for ontologies within NLP include information retrieval , information extraction and automatic summarization .
The ontology generated for the PANGLOSS knowledge-based machine translation system in 1993 may serve as an example of how an ontology for Natural language processing purposes can be compiled :
For example , statistical machine translation ( SMT ) typically outperforms example-based machine translation ( EBMT ) , but researchers found that when evaluating English to French translation , EBMT performs better .
Cleve Moler , the chairman of the computer science department at the University of New Mexico , started developing MATLAB in the late 1970s .
It is now also used in education , in particular the teaching of linear algebra and numerical analysis , and is popular amongst scientists involved in image processing .
MATLAB does include standard codefor / code and codewhile / code loops , but ( as in other similar applications such as R ) , using the vectorized notation is encouraged and is often faster to execute .
Libraries written in Perl , Java , ActiveX or .NET can be directly called from MATLAB ,
Mathematical models are used in the natural science s ( such as physics , biology , earth science , chemistry ) and engineering disciplines ( such as computer science , electrical engineering ) , as well as in the social science s ( such as economics , psychology , sociology , political science ) .
If the modeling is done by an artificial neural network or other machine learning , the optimization of parameters is called " training " , while the optimization of model hyperparameters is called " tuning " and often uses cross-validation ..
This practice is referred to as cross-validation in statistics .
But even an official language with a regulating academy , such as Standard French with the Académie française , is classified as a natural language ( for example , in the field of natural language processing ) , as its prescriptive points do not make it either constructed enough to be classified as a constructed language or controlled enough to be classified as a controlled natural language .
ANNs have been used on a variety of tasks , including computer vision , speech recognition , machine translation , social network filtering , playing board and video games , medical diagnosis , and even in activities that have traditionally been considered as reserved to humans , like painting .
Warren McCulloch and Walter Pitts using principles of dynamic programming .
Geoffrey Hinton et al .
( 2006 ) proposed learning a high-level representation using successive layers of binary or real-valued latent variable s with a restricted Boltzmann machine Unsupervised pre-training and increased computing power from GPU s and distributed computing allowed the use of larger networks , particularly in image and visual recognition problems , which became known as " deep learning " { { cite book | title = Deep Learning | author = Ian Goodfellow and Yoshua Bengio and Aaron Courville | publisher = MIT Press | url =
Ciresan and colleagues ( 2010 ) For example , the bi-directional and multi-dimensional long short-term memory ( LSTM ) Graves , Alex ; and Schmidhuber , Jürgen ; ' , in Bengio , Yoshua ; Schuurmans , Dale ; Lafferty , John ; Williams , Chris K. I. ; and Culotta , Aron ( eds .
The neurons are typically organized into multiple layers , especially in deep learning .
The weight updates can be done via stochastic gradient descent or other methods , such as Extreme Learning Machines , and non-connectionist neural networks .
The three major learning paradigms are supervised learning , unsupervised learning and reinforcement learning .
Supervised learning uses a set of paired inputs and desired outputs .
Tasks suited for supervised learning are pattern recognition ( also known as classification ) and regression ( also known as function approximation ) .
In unsupervised learning , input data is given along with the cost function , some function of the data math \ textstyle x / math and the network 's output .
In reinforcement learning , the aim is to weight the network ( devise a policy ) to perform actions that minimize long-term ( expected cumulative ) cost .
Two modes of learning are available : stochastic gradient descent and batch .
Some of the main breakthroughs include : convolutional neural network nowiki / s that have proven particularly successful in processing visual and other two-dimensional data ;
The multilayer perceptron is a universal function approximator , as proven by the universal approximation theorem .
The first is to use cross-validation and similar techniques to check for the presence of over-training and to select hyperparameters to minimize the generalization error .
Supervised neural networks that use a mean squared error ( MSE ) cost function can use formal statistical methods to determine the confidence of the trained model .
Jürgen Schmidhuber noted that the resurgence of neural networks in the twenty-first century is largely attributable to advances in hardware : from 1991 to 2015 , computing power , especially as delivered by GPGPUs ( on GPUs ) , has increased around a million-fold , making the standard backpropagation algorithm feasible for training networks that are several layers deeper than before .
In collaboration with Edward S. Herman , Chomsky later articulated the propaganda model of media criticism in " Manufacturing Consent " and worked to expose the Indonesian occupation of East Timor .
On visits to New York City , Chomsky continued to frequent the office of the Yiddish anarchist journal " Fraye Arbeter Shtime " and became enamored with the ideas of Rudolf Rocker , a contributor whose work introduced Chomsky to the link between anarchism and classical liberalism .
Chomsky had long publicly criticized Nazism , and totalitarianism more generally , but his commitment to freedom of speech led him to defend the right of French historian Robert Faurisson to advocate a position widely characterized as Holocaust denial .
Chomsky was married to Carol Chomsky (
In February 2020 , before attending the 2020 Hay Festival in Abu Dhabi , United Arab Emirates , Chomsky signed a letter of condemnation of the violation of freedom of speech in the emirate , referring to the arrest of human rights activist Ahmed Mansoor .
Other signers included authors Stephen Fry and Jung Chang .
In the United States he is a Member of the National Academy of Sciences , the American Academy of Arts and Sciences , the Linguistic Society of America , the American Philosophical Association , and the American Association for the Advancement of Science .
Chomsky received the 2004 Carl von Ossietzky Prize from the city of Oldenburg , Germany , to acknowledge his body of work as a political analyst and media critic .
Chomsky has received honorary doctorates from institutions including the University of London and the University of Chicago ( 1967 ) , Loyola University Chicago and Swarthmore College ( 1970 ) , Bard College ( 1971 ) , Delhi University ( 1972 ) , and the University of Massachusetts ( 1973 ) among others .
Natural language processing ( NLP ) is a subfield of linguistics , computer science , information engineering , and artificial intelligence concerned with the interactions between computers and human ( natural ) languages , in particular how to program computers to process and analyze large amounts of natural language data .
Challenges in natural language processing frequently involve speech recognition , natural language understanding , and natural language generation .
In 1950 , Alan Turing published an article titled " Computing Machinery and Intelligence " which proposed what is now called the Turing test as a criterion of intelligence .
Little further research in machine translation was conducted until the late 1980s when the first statistical machine translation systems were developed .
Some notably successful natural language processing systems developed in the 1960s were SHRDLU , a natural language system working in restricted " blocks world s " with restricted vocabularies , and ELIZA , a simulation of a Rogerian psychotherapist , written by Joseph Weizenbaum between 1964 and 1966 .
Starting in the late 1980s , however , there was a revolution in natural language processing with the introduction of machine learning algorithms for language processing .
Some of the earliest-used machine learning algorithms , such as decision tree s , produced systems of hard if-then rules similar to existing hand-written rules .
However , part-of-speech tagging introduced the use of hidden Markov models to natural language processing , and increasingly , research has focused on statistical models , which make soft , probabilistic decisions based on attaching real-valued weights to the features making up the input data .
The cache language model s upon which many speech recognition systems now rely are examples of such statistical models .
Many of the notable early successes occurred in the field of machine translation , due especially to work at IBM Research , where successively more complicated statistical models were developed .
These systems were able to take advantage of existing multilingual textual corpora that had been produced by the Parliament of Canada and the European Union as a result of laws calling for the translation of all governmental proceedings into all official languages of the corresponding systems of government .
Recent research has increasingly focused on unsupervised learning and semi-supervised learning algorithms .
Generally , this task is much more difficult than supervised learning , and typically produces less accurate results for a given amount of input data .
In the 2010s , representation learning and deep learning -style machine learning methods became widespread in natural language processing , due in part to a flurry of results showing that such techniques and many others .
For instance , the term " neural machine translation " ( NMT ) emphasizes the fact that deep learning-based approaches to machine translation directly learn sequence-to-sequence transformations , obviating the need for intermediate steps such as word alignment and language modeling that was used in statistical machine translation ( SMT ) .
In the early days , many language-processing systems were designed by hand-coding a set of rules : such as by writing grammars or devising heuristic rules for stemming .
Some of the earliest-used algorithms , such as decision tree s , produced systems of hard if-then rules similar to the systems of handwritten rules that were then common .
Finally , in 1740 , Thomas Simpson described Newton 's method as an iterative method for solving general nonlinear equations using calculus , essentially giving the description above .
In computer vision the effect is used for computer stereo vision , and there is a device called a parallax rangefinder that uses it to find range , and in some variations also altitude to a target .
A primitive way to determine the distance to the Sun in terms of the distance to the Moon was already proposed by Aristarchus of Samos in his book " On the Sizes and Distances of the Sun and Moon " .
Prolog is a logic programming language associated with artificial intelligence and computational linguistics .
or equivalently using DCG notation :
The International Organization for Standardization Prolog standard consists of two parts .
This tends to yield very large performance gains when working with large corpora such as WordNet .
David H. D. Warren took this interpreter to Edinburgh , and there implemented an alternative front-end , which came to define the " Edinburgh Prolog " syntax used by most modern implementations .
An archaic British word meaning " possession by spirits ( pixie s ) , " the term has been used to describe the animation process since the early 1950s ; various animators , including Norman McLaren and Grant Munro , are credited with popularizing it .
Perception is not only the passive receipt of these Signal processing , but it 's also shaped by the recipient 's learning , memory , expectation , and attention .
Philosopher Andy Clark explains that perception , although it occurs quickly , is not simply a bottom-up process ( where minute details are put together to form larger wholes ) .
Robots can be autonomous or semi-autonomous and range from humanoids such as Honda ' s " Advanced Step in Innovative Mobility " ( ASIMO ) and TOSY ' s " TOSY Ping Pong Playing Robot " ( TOPIO ) to industrial robot s , medical operating robot s , patient assist robots , dog therapy robots , collectively programmed " swarm " robots , UAV drones such as General Atomics MQ-1 Predator , and even microscopic nano robots .
The branch of technology that deals with the design , construction , operation , and application of robots , as well as computer systems for their control , sensory feedback , and information processing is robotics .
Robota , in Slovak , is used to just mean work. the word ' robot ' was first used to denote a fictional humanoid in a 1920 play " R.U.R. " " ( Rossumovi Univerzální Roboti - Rossum 's Universal Robots ) " by the Czech Republic writer , Karel Čapek but it was Karel 's brother Josef Čapek who was the word 's true inventor .
Mark E. Rosheim summarizes the advances in robotics made by Muslim engineers , especially al-Jazari , as follows : blockquoteUnlike the Greek designs , these Arab examples reveal an interest , not only in dramatic illusion , but in manipulating the environment for human comfort .
In Renaissance Italy , Leonardo da Vinci ( 1452-1519 ) sketched plans for a humanoid robot around 1495 .
According to " Encyclopædia Britannica " , Leonardo da Vinci may have been influenced by the classic automata of al-Jazari .
The early 1870s saw remotely controlled torpedo es by John Ericsson ( pneumatic ) , John Louis Lay ( electric wire guided ) , and Victor von Scheliha ( electric wire guided ) .
The Brennan torpedo , invented by Louis Brennan in 1877 , was powered by two contra-rotating propellors that were spun by rapidly pulling out wires from drums wound inside the torpedo .
'Robot ' was first applied as a term for artificial automata in the 1920 play " R.U.R. " by the Czech Republic writer , Karel Čapek .
Walter stressed the importance of using purely analogue electronics to simulate brain processes at a time when his contemporaries such as Alan Turing and John von Neumann were all turning towards a view of mental processes in terms of digital computation .
His work inspired subsequent generations of robotics researchers such as Rodney Brooks , Hans Moravec and Mark Tilden .
The first digitally operated and programmable robot was invented by George Devol in 1954 and was ultimately called the Unimate .
The first palletizing robot was introduced in 1963 by the Fuji Yusoki Kogyo Company. by KUKA robotics in Germany , and the Programmable Universal Machine for Assembly was invented by Victor Scheinman in 1976 , and the design was sold to Unimation .
Robot Operating System is an open-source set of programs being developed at Stanford University , the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Technical University of Munich , Germany , among others .
The word robotics , used to describe this field of study , )
This definition is used by the International Federation of Robotics , the European Robotics Research Network ( EURON ) and many national standards committees .
The International Federation of Robotics has proposed a tentative definition , " A service robot is a robot which operates semi- or fully autonomously to perform services useful to the well-being of humans and equipment , excluding manufacturing operations .
A " collaborative robot " or " cobot " is a robot that can safely and effectively interact with human workers while performing simple industrial tasks .
Rethink Robotics - founded by Rodney Brooks , previously with iRobot - introduced Baxter in September 2012 ; as an industrial robot designed to safely interact with neighboring human workers , and be programmable for performing simple tasks .
In 2009 , experts attended a conference hosted by the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence ( AAAI ) to discuss whether computers and robots might be able to acquire any autonomy , and how much these abilities might pose a threat or hazard .
The World Bank ' s World Development Report 2019 puts forth evidence showing that while automation displaces workers , technological innovation creates more new industries and jobs on balance .
A typical factory contains hundreds of industrial robot s working on fully automated production lines , with one robot for every ten human workers .
Mass-produced printed circuit board s ( PCBs ) are almost exclusively manufactured by pick-and-place robots , typically with SCARA manipulators , which remove tiny electronic component s from strips or trays , and place them on to PCBs with great accuracy .
The Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence has studied this topic in depth
According to the " Oxford English Dictionary , " the first passage in Asimov 's short story " Liar ! " ( 1941 ) that mentions the First Law is the earliest recorded use of the word " robotics " .
More recently , fictional representations of artificially intelligent robots in films such as " A.I. Artificial Intelligence " and " Ex Machina " and the 2016 TV adaptation of " Westworld " have engaged audience sympathy for the robots themselves .
He is involved in fields such as optical character recognition ( OCR ) , speech synthesis , speech recognition technology , and electronic keyboard instruments .
He has written books on health , artificial intelligence ( AI ) , transhumanism , the technological singularity , and futurism .
Kurzweil is a public advocate for the futurist and transhumanist movements , and gives public talks to share his optimistic outlook on life extension technologies and the future of nanotechnology , robotics , and biotechnology .
He was born to secular Jew ish parents who had emigrated from Austria just before the onset of World War II .
His uncle , an engineer at Bell Labs , taught young Kurzweil the basics of computer science .
While in high school , Kurzweil had corresponded with Marvin Minsky and was invited to visit him at MIT , which he did .
Kurzweil also visited Frank Rosenblatt at Cornell .
He went to MIT to study with Marvin Minsky .
In 1974 , Kurzweil founded Kurzweil Computer Products , Inc. and led development of the first omni-font optical character recognition system , a computer program capable of recognizing text written in any normal font .
However , this device required the invention of two enabling technologies - the CCD flatbed scanner and the Speech synthesis synthesizer .
Development of these technologies was completed at other institutions such as Bell Labs , and on January 13 , 1976 , the finished product was unveiled during a news conference headed by him and the leaders of the National Federation of the Blind .
After a 1982 meeting with Stevie Wonder , in which the latter lamented the divide in capabilities and qualities between electronic synthesizers and traditional musical instruments , Kurzweil was inspired to create a new generation of music synthesizers capable of accurately duplicating the sounds of real instruments .
Kurzweil Music Systems was sold to South Korea n musical instrument manufacturer Young Chang in 1990 .
Concurrent with Kurzweil Music Systems , Kurzweil created the company Kurzweil Applied Intelligence ( KAI ) to develop computer speech recognition systems for commercial use .
The first product , which debuted in 1987 , was an early speech recognition program .
Kurzweil has joined the Alcor Life Extension Foundation , a cryonics company .
" The Singularity Is Near " , published in 2005 , was made into a movie starring Pauley Perrette from NCIS .
Part fiction , part non-fiction , the film blends interviews with 20 big thinkers ( such as Marvin Minsky ) with a narrative story that illustrates some of his key ideas , including a computer avatar ( Ramona ) who saves the world from self-replicating microscopic robots .
Filmmakers Barry Ptolemy and Felicia Ptolemy followed Kurzweil , documenting his global speaking-tour .
In 2010 , an independent documentary film called " Plug & Pray " premiered at the Seattle International Film Festival , in which Kurzweil and one of his major critics , the late Joseph Weizenbaum , argue about the benefits of eternal life .
Kurzweil was working with the Army Science Board in 2006 to develop a rapid response system to deal with the possible abuse of biotechnology .
In December 2004 , Kurzweil joined the advisory board of the Machine Intelligence Research Institute .
In May 2013 , Kurzweil was the keynote speaker at the 2013 proceeding of the Research , Innovation , Start-up and Employment ( RISE ) international conference in Seoul , South Korea .
Daniel Lyons , writing in " Newsweek " magazine , criticized Kurzweil for some of his predictions that turned out to be wrong , such as the economy continuing to boom from the 1998 dot-com through 2009 , a US company having a market capitalization of more than $ 1 trillion by 2009 , a supercomputer achieving 20 petaflops , speech recognition being in widespread use and cars that would drive themselves using sensors installed in highways ; all by 2009 .
In 2008 , Kurzweil said in an expert panel in the National Academy of Engineering that solar power will scale up to produce all the energy needs of Earth 's people in 20 years .
Mitch Kapor , the founder of Lotus Development Corporation , has called the notion of a technological singularity " intelligent design for the IQ 140 people ... This proposition that we 're heading to this point at which everything is going to be just unimaginably different - it 's fundamentally , in my view , driven by a religious impulse .
Cognitive scientist Douglas Hofstadter has said of Kurzweil 's and Hans Moravec ' s books : " It 's an intimate mixture of rubbish and good ideas , and it 's very hard to disentangle the two , because these are smart people ; they 're not stupid .
" The Brain Makers " , a history of artificial intelligence written in 1994 by HP Newquist , noted that " Born with the same gift for self-promotion that was a character trait of people like P.T. Barnum and Edward Feigenbaum , Kurzweil had no problems talking up his technical prowess .
In his novel " Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep ? " ( the inspiration for " Blade Runner " ) , Philip K. Dick used the term android ( or " andy " ) , but director Ridley Scott wanted a new term that the audience would not have any preconceptions about .
As David Peoples was re-writing the screenplay , he consulted his daughter , who was involved in microbiology and biochemistry .
From that , either Peoples or Scott - each would later recall it was the other - came up with " replicant " , and it was inserted into Hampton Fancher ' s screenplay.Interview with David Peoples in " Sacrificial Sheep : The Novel vs. the Film " .
Harrison Ford , who played Deckard in the film , has said that he did not think Deckard is a replicant , and has said that he and director Ridley Scott had discussions that ended in the agreement that the character was human .
In the early 2000s , actor Morgan Freeman expressed his desire to produce a film based on " Rendezvous with Rama .
Before the official Hawaiian name ' Oumuamua was selected by the International Astronomical Union , a popular choice was " Rama " .
The signals are usually processed in a digital representation , so speech processing can be regarded as a special case of digital signal processing , applied to speech signals .
The input is called speech recognition and the output is called speech synthesis .
Linear predictive coding ( LPC ) , a speech processing algorithm , was first proposed by Fumitada Itakura of Nagoya University and Shuzo Saito of Nippon Telegraph and Telephone ( NTT ) in 1966 .
By the early 2000s , the dominant speech processing strategy started to shift away from Hidden Markov model towards more modern neural networks and deep learning .
Source separation , blind signal separation ( BSS ) or blind source separation , is the separation of a set of source signal processing from a set of mixed signals , without the aid of information ( or with very little information ) about the source signals or the mixing process .
It is most commonly applied in digital signal processing and involves the analysis of mixtures of signals ; the objective is to recover the original component signals from a mixture signal .
In one approach , exemplified by principal and independent component analysis , one seeks source signals that are minimally correlated or maximally independent in a probabilistic or information theory sense .
This is often used as a form of knowledge representation .
Semantic networks are used in natural language processing applications such as semantic parsing Poon , Hoifung , and Pedro Domingos .
In computing history , " Semantic Nets " for the propositional calculus were first implemented for computers by Richard H. Richens of the Cambridge Language Research Unit in 1956 as an " interlingua " for machine translation of natural language s .
In the late 1980s , two Netherlands universities , University of Groningen and University of Twente , jointly began a project called " Knowledge Graphs " , which are semantic networks but with the added constraint that edges are restricted to be from a limited set of possible relations , to facilitate algebras on the graph .
An example of a semantic network is WordNet , a lexical database of English .
It is also possible to represent logical descriptions using semantic networks such as the existential graph s of Charles Sanders Peirce or the related conceptual graph s of John F. Sowa .
There are many approaches to learning these embeddings , notably using Bayesian clustering frameworks or energy-based frameworks , and more recently , TransE ( Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems 2013 ) .
Applications of embedding knowledge base data include Social network analysis and Relationship extraction .
The Semantic Web is an extension of the World Wide Web through standards set by the World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ) .
The term was coined by Tim Berners-Lee for a web of data ( or data web )
The 2001 " Scientific American " article by Berners-Lee , James Hendler , and Ora Lassila described an expected evolution of the existing Web to a Semantic Web .
The concept of the semantic network model was formed in the early 1960s by researchers such as the cognitive scientist Allan M. Collins , linguist M. Ross Quillian and psychologist Elizabeth F. Loftus as a form to represent semantically structured knowledge .
The term " Semantic Web " was coined by Tim Berners-Lee , the inventor of the World Wide Web and director of the World Wide Web Consortium ( " W3C " ) , which oversees the development of proposed Semantic Web standards .
Tim Berners-Lee has described the semantic web as a component of " Web 3.0 .
The World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ) Incubator Group for Uncertainty Reasoning for the World Wide Web ( URW3-XG ) final report lumps these problems together under the single heading of " uncertainty .
Peter Gärdenfors and Timo Honkela point out that logic-based semantic web technologies cover only a fraction of the relevant phenomena related to semantics .
Since 2008 , the Corporate Semantic Web research group , located at the Free University of Berlin , focuses on building blocks : Corporate Semantic Search , Corporate Semantic Collaboration , and Corporate Ontology Engineering .
The independent variable is usually the wavelength of the light or a unit directly proportional to the photon energy , such as reciprocal centimeters or electron volt s , which has a reciprocal relationship to wavelength .
A spectrometer is used in spectroscopy for producing spectral line s and measuring their wavelength s and intensities .
Signal processing is an electrical engineering subfield that focuses on analysing , modifying , and synthesizing signal s such as sound , image processing , and biological measurements .
Speech recognition is an interdisciplinary subfield of computer science and computational linguistics that develops methodologies and technologies that enable the recognition and translation of spoken language into text by computers .
It incorporates knowledge and research in the computer science , linguistics and computer engineering fields .
Most recently , the field has benefited from advances in deep learning and big data .
Raj Reddy was the first person to take on continuous speech recognition as a graduate student at Stanford University in the late 1960s .
Around this time Soviet researchers invented the dynamic time warping ( DTW ) algorithm and used it to create a recognizer capable of operating on a 200-word vocabulary .
A decade later , at CMU , Raj Reddy 's students James Baker and Janet M. Baker began using the Hidden Markov Model ( HMM ) for speech recognition .
| Apple Apple Inc originally licensed software from Nuance to provide speech recognition capability to its digital assistant Siri .
Today , however , many aspects of speech recognition have been taken over by a deep learning method called Long short-term memory ( LSTM ) , a recurrent neural network published by Sepp Hochreiter & Jürgen Schmidhuber in 1997 .
The use of deep feedforward ( non-recurrent ) networks for acoustic model ing was introduced during later part of 2009 by Geoffrey Hinton and his students at University of Toronto and by Li Deng In contrast to the steady incremental improvements of the past few decades , the application of deep learning decreased word error rate by 30 % .
But these methods never won over the non-uniform internal-handcrafting Gaussian mixture model / Hidden Markov model ( GMM-HMM ) technology based on generative models of speech trained discriminatively .
Both acoustic model ing and language model ing are important parts of modern statistically-based speech recognition algorithms .
Language modeling is also used in many other natural language processing applications such as document classification or statistical machine translation .
Speech can be thought of as a Markov model for many stochastic purposes .
The features would have so-called delta and delta-delta coefficient s to capture speech dynamics and in addition might use heteroscedastic linear discriminant analysis ( HLDA ) ; or might skip the delta and delta-delta coefficients and use splicing and an Linear Discriminant Analysis -based projection followed perhaps by heteroscedastic linear discriminant analysis or a global semi-tied co variance transform ( also known as maximum likelihood linear transform , or MLLT ) .
One fundamental principle of deep learning is to do away with hand-crafted feature engineering and to use raw features .
Traditional phonetic-based ( i.e. , all Hidden Markov model -based model ) approaches required separate components and training for the pronunciation , acoustic and language model .
The first attempt at end-to-end ASR was with Connectionist Temporal Classification ( CTC ) -based systems introduced by Alex Graves of Google DeepMind and Navdeep Jaitly of the University of Toronto in 2014 .
As an alternative to this navigation by hand , cascaded use of speech recognition and information extraction has been studied as a way to fill out a handover form for clinical proofing and sign-off .
Prolonged use of speech recognition software in conjunction with word processor s has shown benefits to short-term-memory restrengthening in brain AVM patients who have been treated with resection .
There has also been much useful work in Canada .
Speech recognition and speech synthesis techniques offer the potential to eliminate the need for a person to act as pseudo-pilot , thus reducing training and support personnel .
Accuracy is usually rated with word error rate ( WER ) , whereas speed is measured with the real time factor .
Other measures of accuracy include Single Word Error Rate ( SWER ) and Command Success Rate ( CSR ) .
Popular speech recognition conferences held each year or two include SpeechTEK and SpeechTEK Europe , ICASSP , Interspeech / Eurospeech , and the IEEE ASRU .
Conferences in the field of natural language processing , such as Association for Computational Linguistics , North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics , EMNLP , and HLT , are beginning to include papers on speech processing .
Important journals include the IEEE Transactions on Speech and Audio Processing ( later renamed IEEE Transactions on Audio , Speech and Language Processing and since Sept 2014 renamed IEEE / ACM Transactions on Audio , Speech and Language Processing - after merging with an ACM publication ) , Computer Speech and Language , and Speech Communication .
In terms of freely available resources , Carnegie Mellon University ' s Sphinx toolkit is one place to start to both learn about speech recognition and to start experimenting .
Another resource ( free but copyrighted ) is the HTK book ( and the accompanying HTK toolkit ) .
For more recent and state-of-the-art techniques , Kaldi toolkit can be used .
With the release of SYSTRAN Server 7 in 2010 , SYSTRAN implemented a hybrid rule-based / statistical machine translation ( SMT ) technology which was the first of its kind in the marketplace .
Large numbers of Russian scientific and technical documents were translated using SYSTRAN under the auspices of the USAF Foreign Technology Division ( later the National Air and Space Intelligence Center ) at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base , Ohio .
, " March 's Thesaurus and Dictionary of the English Language " ( issued under the editorial supervision of Norman Cousins ) , Doubleday , 1968 , p .
Thesauri are used in natural language processing for word-sense disambiguation Yarowsky , David .
In computer science , a tree is a widely used abstract data type ( ADT ) that simulates a hierarchical tree structure , with a root value and subtrees of children with a parent node , represented as a set of linked nodes .
In JavaScript , Python or
A level-order walk effectively performs a breadth-first search over the entirety of a tree ; nodes are traversed level by level , where the root node is visited first , followed by its direct child nodes and their siblings , followed by its grandchild nodes and their siblings , etc .
The company was founded by Kiichiro Toyoda in 1937 , as a spinoff from Sakichi Toyoda company Toyota Industries to create automobiles .
In 1924 , Sakichi Toyoda invented the Toyoda Model G Automatic Loom .
The production of Toyota automobiles was started in 1933 as a division of Toyoda Automatic Loom Works devoted to the production of automobiles under the direction of the founder 's son , Kiichiro Toyoda .
Vehicles were originally sold under the name " Toyoda " ( トヨダ ) , from the family name of the company 's founder , Kiichiro Toyoda .
Severe flooding during the 2011 monsoon season in Thailand affected Japanese automakers that had chosen Thailand as a production base .
On August 27 , 2018 , Toyota announced an investment of $ 500 Million in Uber ' s autonomous car s .
In 2018 Toyota was regarded as being behind in Self-driving car and in need of innovation .
Some of the organizations that Toyota has worked with in the US include the American Red Cross , the Boys and Girls Club , Leaders in Environmental Action for the Future ( LEAF ) , and the National Center for Family Literacy .
Toyota established the Toyota Technological Institute in 1981 , as Sakichi Toyoda had planned to establish a university as soon as he and Toyota became successful .
Toyota Technological Institute founded the Toyota Technological Institute at Chicago in 2003 .
In 1997 , UML was adopted as a standard by the Object Management Group ( OMG ) , and has been managed by this organization ever since .
In 2005 , UML was also published by the International Organization for Standardization ( ISO ) as an approved ISO standard .
The UNL Programme started in 1996 , as an initiative of the Institute of Advanced Studies of the United Nations University in Tokyo , Japan .
Fuzzy logic proposes a gradual transition between " perfect falsity , " for example , the statement " Bill Clinton is bald , " to " perfect truth , " for , say , " Patrick Stewart is bald .
The decoder portion of the vocoder , called a voder , can be used independently for speech synthesis .
Then , to show the speech synthesis ability of its decoder part , the Voder ( Voice Operating Demonstrator ,
The most widely used speech coding technique is linear predictive coding ( LPC ) ,
Werner Meyer-Eppler , a German scientist with a special interest in electronic voice synthesis , published a thesis in 1948 on electronic music and speech synthesis from the viewpoint of sound synthesis .
In 1968 , Robert Moog developed one of the first solid-state musical vocoders for the electronic music studio of the University at Buffalo .
In 1970 , Wendy Carlos and Robert Moog built another musical vocoder , a ten-band device inspired by the vocoder designs of Homer Dudley .
Phil Collins used a vocoder to provide a vocal effect for his 1981 international hit single " In the Air Tonight .
Examples include the German synthpop group Kraftwerk , the Japanese new wave group Polysics , Stevie Wonder ( " Send One Your Love , " " A Seed 's a Star " ) and jazz / fusion keyboardist Herbie Hancock during his late 1970s period .
For example , in " Major Minus " and " Hurts Like Heaven , " both from the album " Mylo Xyloto " ( 2011 ) , Chris Martin ' s vocals are mostly vocoder-processed .
In 1972 , Isao Tomita ' s first electronic music album " Electric Samurai : Switched on Rock " was an early attempt at applying speech synthesis technique in electronic rock and pop music .
WordNet is a lexical database of semantic relation s between word s in more than 200 languages. its primary use is in automatic natural language processing and artificial intelligence applications .
In other words , WordNet can be interpreted and used as a lexical ontology in the computer science sense .
WordNet is the most commonly used computational lexicon of English for word sense disambiguation ( WSD ) , a task aimed to assigning the context-appropriate meanings ( i.e. synset members ) to words in a text.R. Navigli. methods that automatically group together similar senses of the same word.E. Agirre , O. Lopez .
WordNet has been used for a number of purposes in information systems , including word-sense disambiguation , information retrieval , automatic text classification , Automatic summarization , machine translation and even automatic crossword puzzle generation .
A number of WordNet-based word similarity algorithms are implemented in a Perl package called WordNet : : Similarity ,
One of such projects was Russian WordNet patronized by Petersburg State University of Means of Communication by Saint Petersburg State University
Linear predictive coding ( LPC ) is a method used mostly in audio signal processing and speech processing for representing the spectral envelope of a digital signal of speech in compressed form , using the information of a linear predictive model .
LPC is the most widely used method in speech coding and speech synthesis .
The origins of linear predictive coding ( LPC ) date back to 1966 , when the concept was first proposed by Fumitada Itakura of Nagoya University and Shuzo Saito of Nippon Telegraph and Telephone ( NTT ) .
They described an approach to automatic phoneme discrimination that involved the first maximum likelihood approach to speech coding .
LPC is the most widely used method in speech coding and speech synthesis .
In engineering and signal processing , the delta function , also known as the unit impulse symbol , may be regarded through its Laplace transform , as coming from the boundary values of a complex analytic function of a complex variable .
At time matht = 0 / math it is struck by another ball , imparting it with a momentum " P " , in math \ text { kg m } / \ text { s } / math .
This property is fundamental in signal processing , as convolution with a tempered distribution is a linear time-invariant system , and applying the linear time-invariant system measures its impulse response .
A so-called uniform " pulse train " of Dirac delta measures , which is known as a Dirac comb , or as the Shah distribution , creates a sampling function , often used in digital signal processing ( DSP ) and discrete time signal analysis .
Because thought underlies many human actions and interactions , understanding its physical and metaphysical origins and its effects has been a longstanding goal of many academic disciplines including philosophy , linguistics , psychology , neuroscience , artificial intelligence , biology , sociology and cognitive science .
The notion of the fundamental role of non-cognitive understanding in rendering possible thematic consciousness informed the discussion surrounding artificial intelligence ( AI ) during the 1970s and 1980s.Dreyfus , Hubert .
" Jensen , Peter S. , Mrazek , David , Knapp , Penelope K. , Laurence Steinberg , Pfeffer , Cynthia , Schowalter , John , & Shapiro , Theodore .
Jess is a rule engine for the Java platform that was developed by Ernest Friedman-Hill of Sandia National Labs .
The Nyquist-Shannon sampling theorem is a theorem in the field of digital signal processing which serves as a fundamental bridge between continuous-time signal s and discrete-time signal s .
Instead of requiring an optical filter , the graphics processing unit of smartphone cameras performs digital signal processing to remove aliasing with a digital filter .
With this approach , reconstruction is no longer given by a formula , but instead by the solution to a Linear programming .
The most widely known edition of Snakes and Ladders in the United States is " Chutes and Ladders " released by Milton Bradley in 1943.Slesin , Suzanne. equipment , showing children climbing ladders and descending chutes .
The idea of a universal grammar can be traced back to Roger Bacon ' s observations in his There is a Scottish school of universal grammarians from the 18th century , as distinguished from the philosophical language project , which included authors such as James Beattie , Hugh Blair , James Burnett , James Harris , and Adam Smith .
This tradition was continued in the late 19th century by Wilhelm Wundt and in the early 20th century by linguist Otto Jespersen .
It is possible to write a variation on the conjugate gradient method which avoids the explicit calculation of mathZ / math .
Some radar systems commonly use analog-to-digital converters to convert signal strength to digital values for subsequent signal processing .
" A guest editor for that issue will be David 's former colleague at NIST , Judah Levine , who is the most recent recipient of the I. I. Rabi Award .
Organizations known to use ALE for Emergency management , disaster relief , ordinary communication or extraordinary situation response include : American Red Cross , FEMA , Disaster Medical Assistance Team s , NATO , Federal Bureau of Investigation , United Nations , AT & T , Civil Air Patrol , ( ARES ) .
In signal processing , a digital filter is a system that performs mathematical operations on a sampled , discrete-time signal to reduce or enhance certain aspects of that signal .
Since the early 1990s , it has been recommended by several authorities , including the Audio Engineering Society , that measurements of dynamic range be made with an audio signal present , which is then filtered out in the noise floor measurement used in determining dynamic range.AES-6id-2000 This avoids questionable measurements based on the use of blank media , or muting circuits .
In signal processing , group delay is the time delay of the amplitude envelopes of the various sinusoid al components of a signal through a device under test , and is a function of frequency for each component .
In linear time-invariant ( LTI ) system theory , control theory , and in digital signal processing or analog signal processing , the relationship between the input signal , math \ displaystyle x ( t ) / math , to output signal , math \ displaystyle y ( t ) / math , of an LTI system is governed by a convolution operation :
Heterodyning is a signal processing technique invented by Canadian inventor-engineer Reginald Fessenden that creates new frequencies by combining or mixing two frequencies .
In 1901 , Reginald Fessenden demonstrated a direct-conversion heterodyne receiver or beat receiver as a method of making continuous wave radiotelegraphy signals audible. oscillator .
An important and widely used application of the heterodyne technique is in the superheterodyne receiver ( superhet ) , which was invented by U.S. engineer Edwin Howard Armstrong in 1918 .
In signal processing , the Nyquist rate , named after Harry Nyquist , is twice the bandwidth of a bandlimited function or a bandlimited channel .
In signal processing and telecommunication , pulse duration is the interval between the time , during the first transition , that the amplitude of the pulse reaches a specified fraction ( level ) of its final amplitude , and the time the pulse amplitude drops , on the last transition , to the same level .
Data mining is the process of discovering patterns in large data set s involving methods at the intersection of machine learning , statistics , and database system s .
Often the more general terms ( " large scale " ) " data analysis " and " analytics " - or , when referring to actual methods , " artificial intelligence " and " machine learning " - are more appropriate .
The actual data mining task is the semi-automatic or automatic analysis of large quantities of data to extract previously unknown , interesting patterns such as groups of data records ( cluster analysis ) , unusual records ( anomaly detection ) , and dependencies ( association rule mining , sequential pattern mining ) .
The difference between data analysis and data mining is that data analysis is used to test models and hypotheses on the dataset , e.g. , analyzing the effectiveness of a marketing campaign , regardless of the amount of data ; in contrast , data mining uses machine learning and statistical models to uncover clandestine or hidden patterns in a large volume of data.Olson , D. L. ( 2007 ) .
In the academic community , the major forums for research started in 1995 when the First International Conference on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery ( KDD-95 ) was started in Montreal under AAAI sponsorship .
As data set s have grown in size and complexity , direct " hands-on " data analysis has increasingly been augmented with indirect , automated data processing , aided by other discoveries in computer science , specially in the field of machine learning , such as neural networks , cluster analysis , genetic algorithms ( 1950s ) , decision tree learning and decision rules ( 1960s ) , and support vector machines ( 1990s ) .
A simple version of this problem in machine learning is known as overfitting , but the same problem can arise at different phases of the process and thus a train / test split - when applicable at all - may not be sufficient to prevent this from happening .
The premier professional body in the field is the Association for Computing Machinery ' s ( ACM ) Special Interest Group ( SIG ) on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining ( SIGKDD ) .
European Union has rather strong privacy laws , and efforts are underway to further strengthen the rights of the consumers .
As a consequence of Edward Snowden ' s global surveillance disclosure , there has been increased discussion to revoke this agreement , as in particular the data will be fully exposed to the National Security Agency , and attempts to reach an agreement with the United States have failed .
Under European copyright and database law s , the mining of in-copyright works ( such as by web mining ) without the permission of the copyright owner is not legal .
Long before the invention of electronic signal processing , some people tried to build machines to emulate human speech .
In 1779 the Germany - Denmark scientist Christian Gottlieb Kratzenstein won the first prize in a competition announced by the Russian Imperial Academy of Sciences and Arts for models he built of the human vocal tract that could produce the five long vowel sounds ( in International Phonetic Alphabet notation :
Dr. Franklin S. Cooper and his colleagues at Haskins Laboratories built the Pattern playback in the late 1940s and completed it in 1950 .
Using this device , Alvin Liberman and colleagues discovered acoustic cues for the perception of phonetic segments ( consonants and vowels ) .
Linear predictive coding ( LPC ) , a form of speech coding , began development with the work of Fumitada Itakura of Nagoya University and Shuzo Saito of Nippon Telegraph and Telephone ( NTT ) in 1966 .
Dominant systems in the 1980s and 1990s were the DECtalk system , based largely on the work of Dennis Klatt at MIT , and the Bell Labs system ; the latter was one of the first multilingual language-independent systems , making extensive use of natural language processing methods .
Typically , the division into segments is done using a specially modified speech recognition set to a " forced alignment " mode with some manual correction afterward , using visual representations such as the waveform and spectrogram .
Unit selection provides the greatest naturalness , because it applies only a small amount of digital signal processing ( DSP ) to the recorded speech .
At runtime , the target prosody of a sentence is superimposed on these minimal units by means of digital signal processing techniques such as linear predictive coding , PSOLA
The first articulatory synthesizer regularly used for laboratory experiments was developed at Haskins Laboratories in the mid-1970s by Philip Rubin , Tom Baer , and Paul Mermelstein .
HMM-based synthesis is a synthesis method based on hidden Markov model s , also called Statistical Parametric Synthesis .
Speech waveforms are generated from HMMs themselves based on the maximum likelihood criterion .
The WaveNet model proposed in 2016 achieves great performance on speech quality .
Recently TTS systems have begun to use HMMs ( discussed above ) to generate " Part-of-speech tagging " to aid in disambiguating homographs .
The Mattel Intellivision game console offered the Intellivoice Voice Synthesis module in 1982 .
Also released in 1982 , Software Automatic Mouth was the first commercial all-software voice synthesis program .
Apple also introduced speech recognition into its systems which provided a fluid command set .
Starting as a curiosity , the speech system of Apple Macintosh has evolved into a fully supported program , PlainTalk , for people with vision problems .
VoiceOver was for the first time featured in 2005 in Mac OS X Tiger ( 10.4 ) .
The Apple iOS operating system used on the iPhone , iPad and iPod Touch uses VoiceOver speech synthesis for accessibility .
Modern Windows desktop systems can use SAPI 4 and SAPI 5 components to support speech synthesis and speech recognition .
Some specialized software can narrate RSS .
With the 2016 introduction of Adobe Voco audio editing and generating software prototype slated to be part of the Adobe Creative Suite and the similarly enabled DeepMind WaveNet , a deep neural network based audio synthesis software from Google { { cite web
At the 2018 Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems ( NeurIPS ) researchers from Google presented the work .
For example , speech synthesis , combined with speech recognition , allows for interaction with mobile devices via natural language processing interfaces .
A voice quality synthesizer , developed by Jorge C. Lucero et al. at University of Brasília , simulates the physics of phonation and includes models of vocal frequency jitter and tremor , airflow noise and laryngeal asymmetries .
In information theory , a symbol ( event , signal ) of probability mathp / math contains math \ log _ 2 ( 1 / p ) / math bit s of information .
gnuplot can be used from various programming languages to graph data , including Perl ( via PDL and other CPAN packages ) , Python ( via ) .
In July 2017 a poll to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the Royal Society science book prize listed " The Selfish Gene " as the most influential science book of all time .
Yuzuru Tanaka of Hokkaido University wrote a book , " Meme Media and Meme Market Architectures " , while the psychologist Susan Blackmore wrote " The Meme Machine " ( 2000 ) , with a foreword by Dawkins .
In 2006 , a 30th-anniversary edition In March 2011 , Audible Inc published an audiobook edition narrated by Richard Dawkins and Lalla Ward .
In July 2017 , the book was listed as the most influential science book of all time in a poll to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the Royal Society science book prize , ahead of Charles Darwin ' s " On the Origin of Species " and Isaac Newton " s " Principia Mathematica " .
He has won awards from the American Psychological Association , the National Academy of Sciences , the Royal Institution , the Cognitive Neuroscience Society and the American Humanist Association .
Pinker graduated from Dawson College in 1973 .
" The nature of the language faculty and its implications for evolution of language He also showed that this level of representation is used in visual attention , and in object recognition ( at least for asymmetrical shapes ) , contrary to Marr 's theory that recognition uses viewpoint-independent representations .
In his 1996 book " Impossible Minds " , the machine intelligence researcher Igor Aleksander calls " The Language Instinct " excellent , and argues that Pinker presents a relatively soft claim for innatism , accompanied by a strong dislike of the ' Standard Social Sciences Model ' or SSSM ( Pinker 's term ) , which supposes that development is purely dependent on culture .
In 2009 , in " The New York Times " , Pinker wrote a mixed review of Malcolm Gladwell ' s essays , criticizing his analytical methods .
His research in cognitive psychology has won the Early Career Award ( 1984 ) and Boyd McCandless Award ( 1986 ) from the American Psychological Association , the Troland Research Award ( 1993 ) from the National Academy of Sciences , the Henry Dale Prize ( 2004 ) from the Royal Institution of Great Britain , and the George Miller Prize ( 2010 ) from the Cognitive Neuroscience Society .
He has also received honorary doctorates from the universities of Newcastle , Surrey , Tel Aviv University , McGill , Simon Fraser University and the University of Tromsø .
On May 13 , 2006 , he received the American Humanist Association ' s Humanist of the Year award for his contributions to public understanding of human evolution .
" Where Mathematics Comes From : How the Embodied Mind Brings Mathematics into Being " ( hereinafter " WMCF " ) is a book by George Lakoff , a cognitive linguist , and Rafael E. Núñez , a psychologist .
Núñez , educated in Switzerland , is a product of Jean Piaget ' s school of cognitive psychology as a basis for logic and mathematics .
Between 2003 and 2008 , Lakoff was involved with a progressive think tank , the now defunct Rockridge Institute .
First , using evidence from neuroscience and neural network simulations , he argues that certain concepts , such as color and spatial relation concepts ( e.g. " red " or " over " ; see also " qualia " ) , can be almost entirely understood through the examination of how processes of perception or motor control work .
Lakoff is , with coauthors Mark Johnson and Rafael E. Núñez , one of the primary proponents of the embodied mind thesis .
Lakoff and Rafael E. Núñez ( 2000 ) argue at length that mathematical and philosophical ideas are best understood in light of the embodied mind .
Between 2003 and 2008 , Lakoff was involved with a progressive think tank , the Rockridge Institute , an involvement that follows in part from his recommendations in " Moral Politics " .
In 2006 Steven Pinker wrote an unfavorable review of Lakoff 's book " Whose Freedom ? " in " The New Republic " .
A subset called Micro-Planner was implemented by Gerald Jay Sussman , Eugene Charniak and Terry Winograd Sussman , Charniak , and Winograd 1971 and was used in Winograd 's natural-language understanding program SHRDLU , Eugene Charniak 's story understanding work , Thorne McCarty 's work on legal reasoning , and some other projects .
At SRI International , Jeff Rulifson , Jan Derksen , and Richard Waldinger developed QA4 which built on the constructs in Planner and introduced a context mechanism to provide modularity for expressions in the database .
QLISP was used by Richard Waldinger and Karl Levitt for program verification , by Earl Sacerdoti for planning and execution monitoring , by Jean-Claude Latombe for computer-aided design , by Richard Fikes for deductive retrieval , and by Steven Coles for an early expert system that guided use of an econometric model .
Gerry Sussman , Eugene Charniak , Seymour Papert and Terry Winograd visited the University of Edinburgh in 1971 , spreading the news about Micro-Planner and SHRDLU and casting doubt on the resolution uniform proof procedure approach that had been the mainstay of the Edinburgh Logicists .
According to Donald MacKenzie , Pat Hayes recalled the impact of a visit from Papert to Edinburgh , which had become the " heart of artificial intelligence ' s Logicland , " according to Papert 's MIT colleague , Carl Hewitt .
In signal processing , white noise is a random signal having equal intensity at different frequencies , giving it a constant power spectral density .
Claire Shipman ( 2005 ) , " Good Morning America " : " The political rhetoric on Social Security is white noise .
In image processing especially , where samples are typically restricted to positive values , one often takes math \ mu / math to be one half of the maximum sample value .
A process that preserves the formants and character of a voice involves analyzing the signal with a channel vocoder or Linear predictive coding vocoder plus any of several pitch detection algorithm s and then resynthesizing it at a different fundamental frequency .
Dr. Toshitada Doi is credited as AIBO 's original progenitor : in 1994 he had started work on robots with artificial intelligence expert Masahiro Fujita within CSL .
Almost ten years later , Idei 's successor , Howard Stringer closed down AIBO and other robotic projects .
The humanoid QRIO robot was designed as the successor to AIBO , and runs the same base R-CODE and Aperios operating system .
The AIBO has seen much use as an inexpensive platform for artificial intelligence education and research , because it integrates a computer , Computer vision , and articulators in a package vastly cheaper than conventional research robots .
When Siri on an iOS device is asked " Do you have a pet ? , " one of the responses is " I used to have an AIBO .
By exploring common themes in the lives and works of logician Kurt Gödel , artist M. C. Escher , and composer Johann Sebastian Bach , the book expounds concepts fundamental to mathematics , symmetry , and intelligence .
Elements of computer science such as call stack s are also discussed in " Gödel , Escher , Bach " , as one dialogue describes the adventures of Achilles and the Tortoise as they make use of " pushing potion " and " popping tonic " involving entering and leaving different layers of reality .
Humanoid robots , especially those with artificial intelligence algorithm s , could be useful for future dangerous and / or distant space exploration missions , without having the need to turn back around again and return to Earth once the mission is completed .
Computer vision refers to processing data from any modality which uses the electromagnetic spectrum to produce an image .
In humanoid robots it is used to Object recognition and determine their properties .
In planning and control , the essential difference between humanoids and other kinds of robots ( like industrial robot ones ) is that the movement of the robot must be human-like , using legged locomotion , especially biped gait .
Nikola Tesla publicly demonstrates his " automaton " technology by wirelessly controlling a model boat at the Electrical Exposition held at Madison Square Garden in New York City during the height of the Spanish-American War .
Fuzzy logic was proposed by Lotfi A. Zadeh of the University of California at Berkeley in a 1965 paper .
Fuzzy systems were initially implemented in Japan .
Research and development is also continuing on fuzzy applications in software , as opposed to firmware , design , including fuzzy expert system s and integration of fuzzy logic with neural-network and so-called adaptive " genetic algorithm " software systems , with the ultimate goal of building " self-learning " fuzzy-control systems .
Octave helps in solving linear and nonlinear problems numerically , and for performing other numerical experiments using a language that is mostly compatible with MATLAB .
Wolfram Mathematica ( usually termed Mathematica ) is a modern technical computing system spanning most areas of technical computing - including neural networks , machine learning , image processing , geometry , data science , visualizations , and others .
It was conceived by Stephen Wolfram and is developed by Wolfram Research of Champaign , Illinois .
OCR is a field of research in pattern recognition , artificial intelligence and computer vision .
In 1974 , Ray Kurzweil started the company Kurzweil Computer Products , Inc. and continued development of omni- font OCR , which could recognize text printed in virtually any font ( Kurzweil is often credited with inventing omni-font OCR , but it was in use by companies , including CompuScan , in the late 1960s and 1970s In 1978 , Kurzweil Computer Products began selling a commercial version of the optical character recognition computer program .
Handwriting movement analysis can be used as input to handwriting recognition .
Matrix matching involves comparing an image to a stored glyph on a pixel-by-pixel basis ; it is also known as " pattern matching , " " pattern recognition , " or " image correlation .
General techniques of feature detection in computer vision are applicable to this type of OCR , which is commonly seen in " intelligent " handwriting recognition and indeed most modern OCR software .
Modern OCR software like for example OCRopus or Tesseract uses neural network s which were trained to recognize whole lines of text instead of focusing on single characters .
The term " fuzzy logic " was introduced with the 1965 proposal of fuzzy set theory by Lotfi A. Zadeh .
Fuzzy logic has been applied to many fields , from control theory to artificial intelligence .
In computer science and information science , an ontology encompasses a representation , formal naming and definition of the categories , properties and relations between the concepts , data and entities that substantiate one , many or all domains of discourse .
In both fields , there is considerable work on problems of ontology engineering ( e.g. , Quine and Kripke in philosophy , John F. Sowa and Guarino in computer science ) , { { cite journal | first = J. F. | last = Sowa | title = Top-level ontological categories
Artificial intelligence has retained the most attention regarding applied ontology in subfields like natural language processing within machine translation and knowledge representation , but ontology editors are being used often in a range of fields like education without the intent to contribute to AI .
Since the mid-1970s , researchers in the field of artificial intelligence ( AI ) have recognized that knowledge engineering is the key to building large and powerful AI systems .
There are studies on generalized techniques for merging ontologies , but this area of research is still ongoing , and it 's a recent event to see the issue sidestepped by having multiple domain ontologies using the same upper ontology like the OBO Foundry .
Aspects of ontology editors include : visual navigation possibilities within the knowledge model , inference engine s and information extraction ; support for modules ; the import and export of foreign knowledge representation languages for ontology matching ; and the support of meta-ontologies such as OWL-S , Dublin Core , etc .
It has been suggested that the first person to believe otherwise was the Roman physician Galen in the second century AD , who declared that the brain was the source of mental activity ,
Carl Wernicke , a Germany neurologist , found a patient who could speak fluently but non-sensibly .
Korbinian Brodmann was also an important figure in brain mapping ; his experiments based on Franz Nissl 's tissue staining techniques divided the brain into fifty-two areas .
Queueing theory has its origins in research by Agner Krarup Erlang when he created models to describe the Copenhagen telephone exchange .
In 1909 , Agner Krarup Erlang , a Danish engineer who worked for the Copenhagen Telephone Exchange , published the first paper on what would now be called queueing theory .
In computer vision and image processing , the notion of scale space representation and Gaussian derivative operators is regarded as a canonical multi-scale representation .
CT VC is increasingly being used in the United Kingdom and US as a screening test for colon polyps and colon cancer and can negate the need for a colonoscopy in some cases .
The International Commission on Radiological Protection estimates that the risk to a fetus being exposed to 10 mGy ( a unit of radiation exposure ) increases the rate of cancer before 20 years of age from 0.03 % to 0.04 % ( for reference a CT pulmonary angiogram exposes a fetus to 4 mGy ) .
Stephen Wolfram ( In 2012 , he was named an inaugural fellow of the American Mathematical Society .
Stephen Wolfram was born in London in 1959 to Hugo and Sybil Wolfram , both German Jewish refugees to the United Kingdom .
Wolfram 's father , Hugo Wolfram ( 1925-2015 ) , a textile manufacturer born in Bochum , Germany , served as managing director of the Lurex Company , makers of the fabric Lurex .
Wolfram 's mother , Sybil Wolfram ( 1931-1993 ; born Sybille Misch ) , originally from Berlin , Germany , was a Fellow and Tutor in Philosophy at Lady Margaret Hall at University of Oxford from 1964 to 1993 .
Wolfram 's younger brother , Conrad Wolfram , serves as CEO of Wolfram Research Europe , Ltd .
Wolfram | Alpha later launched in May 2009 , The engine is based on natural language processing and a large library of algorithms , and answers queries using the approach described in " A New Kind of Science " .
The 2002 submission of the DAML + OIL language to the World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ) captures the work done by DAML contractors and the European Union / United States ad hoc Joint Committee on Markup Languages .
The Resource Description Framework ( RDF ) is a family of World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ) specification s { { cite web | url = Timeline
This in theory makes an RDF data model better suited to certain kinds of knowledge representation than are other relational or ontological models .
RDF saw little take-up in this period , but there was significant work done in Bristol , around ILRT at Bristol University and HP Labs , and in Boston at MIT .
In Semantic Web applications , and in relatively popular applications of RDF like RSS and FOAF ( Friend of a Friend ) , resources tend to be represented by URIs that intentionally denote , and can be used to access , actual data on the World Wide Web .
Inductive logic programming is particularly useful in bioinformatics and natural language processing .
The PlayStation 2 was unusual in that one of its vector-float units could function as an autonomous DSP executing its own instruction stream , or as a coprocessor driven by ordinary CPU instructions .
The moving average operation used in fields such as finance is a particular kind of low-pass filter , and can be analyzed with the same signal processing techniques as are used for other low-pass filters .
In the 1973 Yom Kippur War , Israel used UAVs as decoys to spur opposing forces into wasting expensive anti-aircraft missiles .
During the 1973 Yom Kippur War , Soviet-supplied surface-to-air missile batteries in Egypt and Syria caused heavy damage to Israeli fighter jet s .
CAPECON was a European Union project to develop UAVs ,
Evolved UAV hierarchical task planners use methods like state tree searches or genetic algorithm s .
Reactive autonomy , such as collective flight , real-time collision avoidance , wall following and corridor centring , relies on telecommunication and situational awareness provided by range sensors : Optical flow , lidar s ( light radars ) , radar s , sonar s .
In 2015 , Civil Aviation Bureau in Japan announced that " UA / Drone " ( refers to any airplane , rotorcraft , glider or airship which cannot accommodate any person on board and can be remotely or automatically piloted ) should ( A ) not fly near or above airports , ( B ) not fly over 150 meter above ground / water surface , ( C ) not fly over urban area and suburb ( so only rural area is allowed .
Maurice Tourneur ' s 1915 film Alias Jimmy Valentine featured a subtle dissolve transformation of the main character from respected citizen Lee Randall into his criminal alter ego Jimmy Valentine .
In 1991 , morphing appeared notably in the Michael Jackson music video " Black or White " and in the movies " Terminator 2 : Judgment Day " and " Star Trek VI : The Undiscovered Country " .
This has led to the use of morphing techniques to create convincing slow-motion effects where none existed in the original film or video footage by morphing between each individual frame using optical flow technology .
Kawasaki 's portfolio also includes retractable roofs , floors and other giant structures , the Sapporo Dome ' s retractable surface is one example .
These included Miyoshi Shōichi who helped Fujioka make the first power generator in Japan and to establish a company , Hakunetsusha to make bulbs ; Oki Kibatarō , the founder of the present Oki Denki ( Oki Electric Industry ) ; and Ishiguro Keizaburō , a co-founder of the present Anritsu .
In 1987 , Tocibai Machine , a subsidiary of Toshiba , was accused of illegally selling CNC milling machine s used to produce very quiet submarine propellers to the Soviet Union in violation of the CoCom agreement , an international embargo on certain countries to COMECON countries .
The incident strained relations between the United States and Japan , and resulted in the arrest and prosecution of two senior executives , as well as the imposition of sanctions on the company by both countries .
In October 2014 , Toshiba and United Technologies agreed a deal to expand their joint venture outside Japan .
In September 2016 , Toshiba announced the first wireless power receiver IC using the Qi 1.2.2 specification , developed in association with the Wireless Power Consortium .
The DCT , first proposed by Nasir Ahmed in 1972 , is a widely used transformation technique in signal processing and data compression .
DCTs are also important to numerous other applications in science and engineering , such as digital signal processing , communications device s , reducing network bandwidth usage , and spectral method s for the numerical solution of partial differential equations .
The DCT is the most widely used transformation technique in signal processing ,
DCT plays a very important role in digital signal processing .
B. Pennebaker and Joan L. Mitchell , " JPEG Still Image Data Compression Standard " .
Science fiction scholar James Gunn writes in 1982 , " The Asimov robot stories as a whole may respond best to an analysis on this basis : the ambiguity in the Three Laws and the ways in which Asimov played twenty-nine variations upon a theme .
In the officially licensed " Foundation " sequels " Foundation 's Fear " , " Foundation and Chaos " and " Foundation 's Triumph " ( by Gregory Benford , Greg Bear and David Brin respectively ) the future Galactic Empire is seen to be controlled by a conspiracy of humaniform robots who follow the Zeroth Law and are led by R. Daneel Olivaw .
Daneel also comes into conflict with a robot known as R. Lodovic Trema whose positronic brain was infected by a rogue artificial intelligence - specifically , a simulation of the long-dead Voltaire - which consequently frees Trema from the Three Laws .
David Langford has suggested a tongue-in-cheek set of laws :
In March 2007 the South Korea n government announced that later in the year it would issue a " Robot Ethics Charter " setting standards for both users and manufacturers .
The futurist Hans Moravec ( a prominent figure in the transhumanist movement ) proposed that the Laws of Robotics should be adapted to " corporate intelligences " - the corporation s driven by AI and robotic manufacturing power which Moravec believes will arise in the near future .
In contrast , the David Brin novel " Foundation 's Triumph " ( 1999 ) suggests that the Three Laws may decay into obsolescence : Robots use the Zeroth Law to rationalize away the First Law and robots hide themselves from human beings so that the Second Law never comes into play .
The film " Bicentennial Man " ( 1999 ) features Robin Williams as the Three Laws robot NDR-114 ( the serial number is partially a reference to Stanley Kubrick ' s signature numeral ) .
The plot of the film released in 2004 under the name , " I , Robot " is " suggested by " Asimov 's robot fiction stories " Suggested by " Isaac Asimov 's robot stories - two stops removed from " based on " and " inspired by , " the credit implies something scribbled on a bar napkin - Alex Proyas ' science-fiction thriller " I , Robot " sprinkles Asimov 's ideas like seasoning on a giant bucket of popcorn .
Marc Rotenberg , President and Executive Director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center ( EPIC ) and Professor of information privacy law at Georgetown Law , argues that the Laws of Robotics should be expanded to include two new laws :
Markov processes are the basis for general stochastic simulation methods known as Markov chain Monte Carlo , which are used for simulating sampling from complex probability distributions , and have found application in Bayesian statistics and artificial intelligence .
Usually the term " Markov chain " is reserved for a process with a discrete set of times , that is , a discrete-time Markov chain ( DTMC ) , In addition , there are other extensions of Markov processes that are referred to as such but do not necessarily fall within any of these four categories ( see Markov model ) .
Hidden Markov model s are the basis for most modern automatic speech recognition systems .
Claude Shannon ' s famous 1948 paper " A Mathematical Theory of Communication " , which in a single step created the field of information theory , opens by introducing the concept of entropy through Markov modeling of the English language .
They also allow effective state estimation and pattern recognition .
Markov chains also play an important role in reinforcement learning .
An example is the reformulation of the idea , originally due to Karl Marx ' s Das Kapital , tying economic development to the rise of capitalism .
Markov processes can also be used to natural language generation given a sample document .
In machine learning , support-vector machines ( SVMs , also support-vector networks ) are supervised learning models with associated learning algorithm s that analyze data used for classification and regression analysis .
When data are unlabelled , supervised learning is not possible , and an unsupervised learning approach is required , which attempts to find natural Cluster analysis to groups , and then map new data to these formed groups .
Classifying data is a common task in machine learning .
To extend SVM to cases in which the data are not linearly separable , we introduce the " hinge loss " function ,
The classical approach , which involves reducing ( 2 ) to a quadratic programming problem , is detailed below .
Since the dual maximization problem is a quadratic function of the math c _ i / math subject to linear constraints , it is efficiently solvable by quadratic programming algorithms .
As such , traditional gradient descent ( or Stochastic gradient descent ) methods can be adapted , where instead of taking a step in the direction of the function 's gradient , a step is taken in the direction of a vector selected from the function 's sub-gradient .
Coordinate descent algorithms for the SVM work from the dual problem
The soft-margin support vector machine described above is an example of an empirical risk minimization ( ERM ) algorithm for the " hinge loss " .
In light of the above discussion , we see that the SVM technique is equivalent to empirical risk minimization with Tikhonov regularization , where in this case the loss function is the hinge loss
From this perspective , SVM is closely related to other fundamental classification algorithm s such as regularized least-squares and logistic regression .
Typically , each combination of parameter choices is checked using cross validation , and the parameters with best cross-validation accuracy are picked .
The dominant approach for doing so is to reduce the single multiclass problem into multiple binary classification problems .
Transductive support-vector machines extend SVMs in that they could also treat partially labeled data in semi-supervised learning by following the principles of transduction .
There exist several specialized algorithms for quickly solving the quadratic programming ( QP ) problem that arises from SVMs , mostly relying on heuristics for breaking the problem down into smaller , more manageable chunks .
The special case of linear support-vector machines can be solved more efficiently by the same kind of algorithms used to optimize its close cousin , logistic regression ; this class of algorithms includes Stochastic gradient descent ( e.g. , PEGASOS ) .
The general kernel SVMs can also be solved more efficiently using Stochastic gradient descent ( e.g. P-packSVM ) , especially when parallelization is allowed .
Kernel SVMs are available in many machine-learning toolkits , including LIBSVM , MATLAB , and others .
The projective chirp is ideally suited to image processing , and forms the basis for the projective chirplet transform .
Reinforcement learning ( RL ) is an area of machine learning concerned with how software agent s ought to take actions in an environment in order to maximize the notion of cumulative reward .
Reinforcement learning is one of three basic machine learning paradigms , alongside supervised learning and unsupervised learning .
The environment is typically stated in the form of a Markov decision process ( MDP ) , because many reinforcement learning algorithms for this context utilize dynamic programming techniques .
Reinforcement learning , due to its generality , is studied in many other disciplines , such as game theory , control theory , operations research , information theory , simulation-based optimization , multi-agent system s , swarm intelligence , statistics and genetic algorithm s .
It has been applied successfully to various problems , including robot control , elevator scheduling , telecommunications , backgammon , checkers and Go ( AlphaGo ) .
However , reinforcement learning converts both planning problems to machine learning problems .
Value iteration can also be used as a starting point , giving rise to the Q-learning algorithm and its many variants .
If the gradient of math \ rho / math was known , one could use gradient descent .
The first book to feature a hologram on the front cover was " The Skook " ( Warner Books , 1984 ) by JP Miller , featuring an illustration by Miller .
During the 1980s , many artists who worked with holography helped the diffusion of this so-called " new medium " in the art world , such as Harriet Casdin-Silver of the United States , Dieter Jung of Germany , and Moysés Baumstein of Brazil , each one searching for a proper " language " to use with the three-dimensional work , avoiding the simple holographic reproduction of a sculpture or object .
Examples of applications of such real-time holograms include phase-conjugate mirror s ( " time-reversal " of light ) , optical cache memories , image processing ( pattern recognition of time-varying images ) , and optical computing .
Examples of this digital version of Pepper 's ghost illusion include the Gorillaz performances in the 2005 MTV Europe Music Awards and the 48th Grammy Awards ; and Tupac Shakur ' s virtual performance at Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival in 2012 , rapping alongside Snoop Dogg during his set with Dr. Dre .
In computational linguistics , word-sense disambiguation ( WSD ) is an open problem concerned with identifying which sense of a word is used in a sentence .
In computer science and the information technology that it enables , it has been a long-term challenge to develop the ability in computers to do natural language processing and machine learning .
Warren Weaver , in his famous 1949 memorandum on translation , that WSD could not be solved by " electronic computer " because of the need in general to model all world knowledge .
In the 1970s , WSD was a subtask of semantic interpretation systems developed within the field of artificial intelligence , starting with Yorick Wilks ' preference semantics .
Most research in the field of WSD is performed by using WordNet as a reference sense inventory for English .
In any real test , part-of-speech tagging and sense tagging are very closely related with each potentially making constraints to the other .
The success rate for part-of-speech tagging algorithms is at present much higher than that for WSD , state-of-the art being around 95 % accuracy in word sense disambiguation with supervised learning .
Some AI researchers like Douglas Lenat argue that one cannot parse meanings from words without some form of common sense ontology .
For example , the ambiguity of ' mouse ' ( animal or device ) is not relevant in English-French machine translation , but is relevant in information retrieval .
As in all natural language processing , there are two main approaches to WSD - deep approach es and shallow approach es .
Two shallow approaches used to train and then disambiguate are Naive Bayes classifier and decision tree s .
In recent research , kernel-based methods such as support vector machine s have shown superior performance in supervised learning .
An alternative to the use of the definitions is to consider general word-sense relatedness and to compute the semantic similarity of each pair of word senses based on a given lexical knowledge base such as WordNet .
Supervised learning methods are based on the assumption that the context can provide enough evidence on its own to disambiguate words ( hence , common sense and reasoning are deemed unnecessary ) .
Because of the lack of training data , many word sense disambiguation algorithms use semi-supervised learning , which allows both labeled and unlabeled data .
Unsupervised learning is the greatest challenge for WSD researchers .
The underlying assumption is that similar senses occur in similar contexts , and thus senses can be induced from text by cluster analysis word occurrences using some measure of similarity of context , It is hoped that unsupervised learning will overcome the knowledge acquisition bottleneck because they are not dependent on manual effort .
Representing words considering their context through fixed size dense vectors ( word embedding s ) has become one of the most fundamental blocks in several NLP systems. an unsupervised disambiguation system uses the similarity between word senses in a fixed context window to select the most suitable word sense using a pre-trained word embedding model and WordNet .
Unsupervised learning rely on knowledge about word senses , which is only sparsely formulated in dictionaries and lexical databases .
Supervised learning depend crucially on the existence of manually annotated examples for every word sense , a requisite that can so far be met only for a handful of words for testing purposes , as it is done in the Senseval exercises .
WSD has been traditionally understood as an intermediate language engineering technology which could improve applications such as information retrieval ( IR ) .
It has applications in pedagogy and machine learning , because they rely on word-sense disambiguation .
Dean later formed the activist organization Democracy for America and later was elected chairman of the Democratic National Committee ( leader of the Democratic party ) in February 2005 .
Urban theorist and ethicist Jane Jacobs made this distinction in less gender-driven terms by differentiating between a ' Guardian Ethic ' and a ' Trader Ethic ' .Jacobs , J. ' Systems of Survival ' , Hodder and Stoughton , London , 1993 .
Further , partly in response to such criticisms , Lakoff and Rafael E. Núñez , in 2000 , proposed a cognitive science of mathematics that would explain mathematics as a consequence of , not an alternative to , the human reliance on conceptual metaphor to understand abstraction in terms of basic experiential concretes .
Conceptual clustering developed mainly during the 1980s , as a machine learning paradigm for unsupervised learning .
It is distinguished from ordinary Cluster analysis by generating a concept description for each generated category .
Categorization tasks in which category labels are provided to the learner for certain objects are referred to as supervised classification , supervised learning , or concept learning .
Categorization tasks in which no labels are supplied are referred to as unsupervised classification , unsupervised learning , or Cluster analysis .
A self-organizing map ( SOM ) or self-organizing feature map ( SOFM ) is a type of artificial neural network ( ANN ) that is trained using unsupervised learning to produce a low-dimensional ( typically two-dimensional ) , discretized representation of the input space of the training samples , called a map , and is therefore a method to do dimensionality reduction .
Self-organizing maps differ from other artificial neural networks as they apply competitive learning as opposed to error-correction learning ( such as backpropagation with gradient descent ) , and in the sense that they use a neighborhood function to preserve the topological properties of the input space .
The artificial neural network introduced by the Finland professor Teuvo Kohonen in the 1980s is sometimes called a Kohonen map or network .
While it is typical to consider this type of network structure as related to Feedforward neural networks where the nodes are visualized as being attached , this type of architecture is fundamentally different in arrangement and motivation .
" Training " builds the map using input examples ( a competitive process , also called vector quantization ) , while " mapping " automatically classifies a new input vector .
The standard interface and calculator interface are written in Java .
A droid is a fictional robot possessing some degree of artificial intelligence in the " Star Wars " science-fiction franchise .
Coined by special effects artist John Stears , the term is a clipped form of " android , , " " The Word Guy " .
During the production of " The Empire Strikes Back " , Joe Johnston drew storyboard panels influenced by Dan O 'Bannon and Moebius ' s short comic " The Long Tomorrow " ( 1975 ) , one of which repurposes a pose Johnston admitted he borrowed from said work .
This mechanism also needed to be able to drive motors for fans , pumps and robotics servos , and needed to be compact enough to interface with lamp dimmers .
The film 's plot appears loosely based on William Shakespeare " s play " The Tempest " ( 1610 ) , with the planet Altair IV standing in for Shakespeare 's remote island and Dr. Morbius for Prospero .
Robby exhibits artificial intelligence , but has a distinct personality that at times exhibits a dry wit .
The robot 's groundbreaking design and dazzling finish represented a radical advance on the conventional " walking oil-can " depictions of robots in earlier features and film serials , and the only previous film robot of comparable style and quality was the " Menschmaschine " created for Fritz Lang ' s " Metropolis " ( 1927 ) .
Robby was operated ( uncredited ) by stuntmen Frankie Darro and Frankie Carpenter ; both actors were of shorter stature ( Darro was 5 ' 3 " ) .
The Robby voice heard in the finished film was re-recorded in post-production by actor Marvin Miller .
Actor Les Tremayne read the film 's prologue .
Robby also appeared in the " Mork & Mindy " second-season episode " Dr. Morkenstein , " this time representing a character called Chuck ( voiced by actor Roddy McDowall ) whom Mork befriends while working as a security guard in the science museum where Chuck is on display .
Disappointed with the performance of Shakey the robot and similar conscious mind representation-inspired projects , Rodney Brooks started creating robots based on a different notion of intelligence , resembling unconscious mind processes .
The lack of large memory storage , symbolic representations , and central control , however , places it at a disadvantage at learning complex actions , in-depth mapping , and natural language understanding .
With the help of advanced AR technologies ( e.g. adding computer vision , incorporating AR cameras into smartphone applications and object recognition ) the information about the surrounding real world of the user becomes interactive and digitally manipulated .
Modern mobile augmented-reality systems use one or more of the following motion capture technologies :
Techniques include speech recognition systems that translate a user 's spoken words into computer instructions , and gesture recognition systems that interpret a user 's body movements by visual detection or from sensors embedded in a peripheral device such as a wand , stylus , pointer , glove or other body wear.Marshall , Gary .. Products which are trying to serve as a controller of AR headsets include Wave by Seebright Inc. and Nimble by Intugine Technologies .
That process is called image registration , and uses different methods of computer vision , mostly related to video tracking .Maida , James ; Bowen , Charles ; Montpool , Andrew ; Pace , John .
The first stage is to detect interest points , fiducial markers or optical flow in the camera images .
This step can use feature detection methods like corner detection , blob detection , edge detection or thresholding , and other image processing methods.State , Andrei ; Hirota , Gentaro ; Chen , David T ; Garrett , William ; Livingston , Mark .
Augmented Reality Markup Language ( ARML ) is a data standard developed within the Open Geospatial Consortium ( OGC ) , which consists of Extensible Markup Language ( XML ) grammar to describe the location and appearance of virtual objects in the scene , as well as ECMAScript bindings to allow dynamic access to properties of virtual objects .
Leeds College of Music teams have developed an AR app that can be used with Audient desks and allow students to use their smartphone or tablet to put layers of information or interactivity on top of an Audient mixing desk .
In a proof-of-concept project Ian Sterling , an interaction design student at California College of the Arts , and software engineer Swaroop Pal demonstrated a HoloLens app whose primary purpose is to provide a 3D spatial UI for cross-platform devices - the Android Music Player app and Arduino-controlled Fan and Light - and also allow interaction using gaze and gesture control .
The Code of Ethics on Human Augmentation , which was originally introduced by Steve Mann in 2004 and further refined with Ray Kurzweil and Marvin Minsky in 2013 , was ultimately ratified at the Virtual Reality Toronto conference on June 25 , 2017 .
Robert Lees obtained a value for the " glottochronological constant " ( r ) of words by considering the known changes in 13 pairs of languages using the 200 word list .
CycL in computer science and artificial intelligence is an ontology language used by Doug Lenat 's Cyc artificial intelligence project .
An early mechanical CCTV system was developed in June 1927 by Russian physicist Léon Theremin
A trial by RET in 2011 with Facial recognition system cameras mounted on trams made sure that people that were banned from the city trams did not sneak on anyway .
In the United States , the Constitution does not explicitly include the right to privacy although the Supreme Court has said several of the amendments to the Constitution implicitly grant this right .
All countries in the European Union are signatories to the European Convention on Human Rights which protects individual rights including the right to privacy .
In the United Kingdom the Data Protection Act 1998 imposes legal restrictions on the uses of CCTV recordings and mandates the registration of CCTV systems with the Data Protection Agency .
In Canada , the use of video surveillance has grown very rapidly .
In Sweden , the use of CCTV in public spaces is regulated both nationally and via GDPR ( the European privacy act ) .
In Wiltshire , United Kingdom , 2003 , a pilot scheme for what is now known as " Talking CCTV " was put into action ; allowing operators of CCTV cameras to order offenders to stop what they were doing , ranging from ordering subjects to pick up their rubbish and put it in a bin to ordering groups of vandals to disperse .
In machine learning , naïve Bayes classifiers are a family of simple " probabilistic classifier s " based on applying Bayes ' theorem with strong ( naïve ) independence assumptions between the features .
It was introduced ( though not under that name ) into the information retrieval community in the early 1960s ,
In the statistics and computer science literature , naive Bayes models are known under a variety of names , including simple Bayes and independence Bayes .
For some types of probability models , naive Bayes classifiers can be trained very efficiently in a supervised learning setting .
In many practical applications , parameter estimation for naive Bayes models uses the method of maximum likelihood ; in other words , one can work with the naive Bayes model without accepting Bayesian probability or using any Bayesian methods .
" discuss problems with the multinomial assumption in the context of document classification and possible ways to alleviate those problems , including the use of tf-idf weights instead of raw term frequencies and document length normalization , to produce a naive Bayes classifier that is competitive with support vector machine s .
Given a way to train a naive Bayes classifier from labeled data , it 's possible to construct a semi-supervised learning training algorithm that can learn from a combination of labeled and unlabeled data by running the supervised learning algorithm in a loop :
Discriminative classifiers have lower asymptotic error than generative ones ; however , research by Ng and Michael I. Jordan has shown that in some practical cases naive Bayes can outperform logistic regression because it reaches its asymptotic error faster .
If a greedy algorithm can be proven to yield the global optimum for a given problem class , it typically becomes the method of choice because it is faster than other optimization methods like dynamic programming .
In machine learning , boosting is an ensemble meta-algorithm for primarily reducing bias , and also variance " Can a set of weak learners create a single strong learner ? " A weak learner is defined to be a classifier that is only slightly correlated with the true classification ( it can label examples better than random guessing ) .
Schapire and Freund then developed AdaBoost , an adaptive boosting algorithm that won the prestigious Gödel Prize .
AdaBoost is very popular and the most significant historically as it was the first algorithm that could adapt to the weak learners .
There are many more recent algorithms such as LPBoost , TotalBoost , BrownBoost , xgboost , MadaBoost , LogitBoost , and others .
Many boosting algorithms fit into the AnyBoost framework , which shows that boosting performs gradient descent in a function space using a convex cost function .
Object categorization is a typical task of computer vision that involves determining whether or not an image contains some specific category of object .
Appearance based object categorization typically contains feature extraction , learning a classifier , and applying the classifier to new examples .
Examples of supervised learning are Naive Bayes classifier , Support vector machine , mixtures of Gaussians , and neural network .
However , research has shown that object categories and their locations in images can be discovered in an Unsupervised learning as well.Sivic , Russell , Efros , Freeman & Zisserman , " Discovering objects and their location in images , " ICCV 2005
The recognition of object categories in images is a challenging problem in computer vision , especially when the number of categories is large .
, " Generic Object Recognition with Boosting , " IEEE Transactions on PAMI 2006 Humans are able to recognize thousands of object types , whereas most of the existing object recognition systems are trained to recognize only a few , ) have been developed .
After boosting , a classifier constructed from 200 features could yield a 95 % detection rate under a math10 ^ { -5 } / math false positive rate .P. Viola , M. Jones , " Robust Real-time Object Detection , " 2001
Similar results are shown in the paper " Incremental learning of object detectors using a visual shape alphabet , " yet the authors used AdaBoost for boosting .
Convex algorithms , such as AdaBoost and LogitBoost , can be " defeated " by random noise such that they can 't learn basic and learnable combinations of weak hypotheses.P. Long and R. Servedio .
However , by 2009 , multiple authors demonstrated that boosting algorithms based on non-convex optimization , such as BrownBoost , can learn from noisy datasets and can specifically learn the underlying classifier of the Long-Servedio dataset .
System analysis can be used to represent almost anything from population growth to audio speakers ; electrical engineers often use it because of its direct relevance to many areas of their discipline , most notably signal processing , communication systems and control systems .
Panasonic was founded in 1918 by Kōnosuke Matsushita as a vendor of duplex lamp sockets .
On May 18 , 2013 , Panasonic announced that it would invest $ 40 million in building a factory in Binh Duong , Vietnam , which was completed in 2014 .
In November 2010 , Panasonic Electric Works established Panasonic Electric Works Vossloh-Schwabe Serbia d.o.o , a new company in Svilajnac , Serbia , to manufacture energy-efficient electronic devices ( ballasts ) for lighting fixtures .
PT Panasonic Gobel Indonesia ( formerly known as PT National Gobel and PT National Panasonic Gobel ) is the name of the company 's Indonesia division based in Cawang , East Jakarta .
Panasonic sponsors the German footballer Marco Reus , who plays for Bundesliga club Borussia Dortmund and Germany .
In computer science , digital image processing is the use of a digital computer to " process " digital image s through an " algorithm " .
As a subcategory or field of digital signal processing , digital image processing has many advantages over analog image processing .
Electronic signal processing was revolutionized by the wide adoption of MOS technology in the 1970s .
" Westworld " ( 1973 ) was the first feature film to use the digital image processing to pixellate photography to simulate an android 's point of view .
Binary images are produced from color images by image segmentation .
This is important in image recognition , for example in optical character recognition .
Hidden Markov Model ( HMM ) is a statistical Markov model in which the system being modeled is assumed to be a Markov process with unobservable ( " " hidden " " ) states .
Hidden Markov models are known for their applications to reinforcement learning and temporal pattern recognition such as speech recognition , handwriting recognition , gesture recognition , Thad Starner , Alex Pentland .
Applying the principle of dynamic programming , this problem , too , can be handled efficiently using the forward algorithm .
An example is part-of-speech tagging , where the hidden states represent the underlying parts of speech corresponding to an observed sequence of words .
The task is usually to derive the maximum likelihood estimate of the parameters of the HMM given the set of output sequences .
Such a two-level prior distribution , where both concentration parameters are set to produce sparse distributions , might be useful for example in unsupervised learning part-of-speech tagging , where some parts of speech occur much more commonly than others ; learning algorithms that assume a uniform prior distribution generally perform poorly on this task .
An example of this model is the so-called " maximum entropy Markov model " ( MEMM ) , which models the conditional distribution of the states using logistic regression ( also known as a " maximum entropy model " ) .
A year later , in 1965 , Joseph Weizenbaum at MIT wrote ELIZA , an interactive program that carried on a dialogue in English on any topic , the most popular being psychotherapy .
In 1969 Roger Schank at Stanford University introduced the conceptual dependency theory for natural-language understanding .
Roger Schank , 1969 , " A conceptual dependency parser for natural language " Proceedings of the 1969 conference on Computational linguistics , Sång-Säby , Sweden , pages 1-3 This model , partially influenced by the work of Sydney Lamb , was extensively used by Schank 's students at Yale University , such as Robert Wilensky , Wendy Lehnert , and Janet Kolodner .
In 1971 Terry Winograd finished writing SHRDLU for his PhD thesis at MIT .
However , it is debated how much " understanding " such systems demonstrate , " e.g. " according to John Searle , Watson did not even understand the questions .
The construction of a rich lexicon with a suitable ontology requires significant effort , " e.g. " , the Wordnet lexicon required many person-years of effort.G. A. Miller , R. Beckwith , C. D. Fellbaum , D. Gross , K. Miller .
SHRDLU was an early natural language understanding computer program , developed by Terry Winograd at MIT in 1968-1970 .
SHRDLU was considered a tremendously successful demonstration of Artificial intelligence .
LDA is a supervised learning algorithm that utilizes the labels of the data , while PCA is an unsupervised learning algorithm that ignores the labels .
Discriminative training of linear classifiers usually proceeds in a supervised learning way , by means of an optimization algorithm that is given a training set with desired outputs and a loss function that measures the discrepancy between the classifier 's outputs and the desired outputs .
Popular loss functions include the hinge loss ( for linear SVMs ) and the log loss ( for linear logistic regression ) .
If the regularization function Many algorithms exist for solving such problems ; popular ones for linear classification include ( Stochastic gradient descent ) gradient descent , L-BFGS , coordinate descent and Newton method s .
Lenat was one of the original Fellows of the AAAI , and is the only individual to have served on the Scientific Advisory Boards of both Microsoft and Apple .
He is a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science , Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence , and Cognitive Science Society , and an editor of the J. Automated Reasoning , J. Learning Sciences , and J. Applied Ontology .
His thesis advisor was Professor Cordell Green , and his thesis / oral committee included Professors Edward Feigenbaum , Joshua Lederberg , Paul Cohen , Allen Newell , Herbert Simon , .
Eurisko made many interesting discoveries and enjoyed significant acclaim , with his paper " Heuretics : Theoretical and Experimental Study of Heuristic Rules " winning the Best Paper award at the 1982 Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence .
Based in Dorval , Quebec , Canada , it was founded in 1976 by Lorne Trottier and Branko Matić .
John Florian Sowa ( born 1940 ) is an American computer scientist , an expert in artificial intelligence and computer design , and the inventor of conceptual graph s .
Sowa received a BS in mathematics from Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1962 , an MA in applied mathematics from Harvard University in 1966 , and a PhD in computer science from the Vrije Universiteit Brussel in 1999 on a dissertation titled " Knowledge Representation : Logical , Philosophical , and Computational Foundations .
Over the decades he has researched and developed emerging fields of computer science from compiler , programming languages , and system architectureJohn F. Sowa and John Zachman ( 1992 ) .
With this company he was developing data-mining and database technology , more specific high-level " ontologies " for artificial intelligence and automated natural language understanding .
Sowa 's research interest since the 1970s were in the field of artificial intelligence , expert systems and database query linked to natural languages .
Cognitive processes are analyzed from different perspectives within different contexts , notably in the fields of linguistics , anesthesia , neuroscience , psychiatry , psychology , education , philosophy , anthropology , biology , systemics , logic , and computer science .
Mary Whiton Calkins ( 1863-1930 ) was an influential American pioneer in the realm of psychology .
It encompasses processes such as memory , association , concept formation , pattern recognition , language , attention , perception , action , problem solving and mental imagery .
Relatively recent fields of study such as neuropsychology aim to bridge this gap , using cognitive paradigms to understand how the brain implements the information-processing functions ( see also cognitive neuroscience ) , or to understand how pure information-processing systems ( e.g. , computers ) can simulate human cognition ( see also artificial intelligence ) .
The semantic network of knowledge representation systems has been studied in various paradigms .
The hierarchical structure of words has been explicitly mapped in George Miller ' s Wordnet .
More dynamic models of semantic networks have been created and tested with neural network experiments based on computational systems such as latent semantic analysis ( LSA ) , Bayesian analysis , and multidimensional factor analysis .
In digital signal processing , spatial anti-aliasing is a technique for minimizing the distortion artifacts known as aliasing when representing a high-resolution image at a lower resolution .
Some languages make it possible portably ( e.g. Scheme , Common Lisp , Perl or D ) .
Pattern recognition is closely related to artificial intelligence and machine learning ,
Pattern recognition systems are in many cases trained from labeled " training " data ( supervised learning ) , but when no labeled data are available other algorithms can be used to discover previously unknown patterns ( unsupervised learning ) .
Machine learning is strongly related to pattern recognition and originates from artificial intelligence .
Pattern recognition focuses more on the signal and also takes acquisition and Signal Processing into consideration .
It originated in engineering , and the term is popular in the context of computer vision : a leading computer vision conference is named Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition .
In machine learning , pattern recognition is the assignment of a label to a given input value .
In statistics , Linear discriminant analysis was introduced for this same purpose in 1936 .
A common example of a pattern-matching algorithm is regular expression matching , which looks for patterns of a given sort in textual data and is included in the search capabilities of many text editor s and word processor s .
" Supervised learning " assumes that a set of " training data " ( the " training set " ) has been provided , consisting of a set of instances that have been properly labeled by hand with the correct output .
Unsupervised learning , on the other hand , assumes training data that has not been hand-labeled , and attempts to find inherent patterns in the data that can then be used to determine the correct output value for new data instances .. A combination of the two that has recently been explored is semi-supervised learning , which uses a combination of labeled and unlabeled data ( typically a small set of labeled data combined with a large amount of unlabeled data ) .
title = Comparison of algorithms that select features for pattern classifiers | journal = Pattern Recognition | volume = 33 | pages = 25 & ndash ; 41 | doi = 10.1016 / S0031-3203 ( 99 ) 00041-2 | issue = 1 | citeseerx = 10.1.1.55.1718 } } .
For example , feature extraction algorithms attempt to reduce a large-dimensionality feature vector into a smaller-dimensionality vector that is easier to work with and encodes less redundancy , using mathematical techniques such as principal components analysis ( PCA ) .
Essentially , this combines maximum likelihood estimation with a regularization procedure that favors simpler models over more complex models .
Other typical applications of pattern recognition techniques are automatic speech recognition , classification of text into several categories ( e.g. , spam / non-spam email messages ) , the handwriting recognition on postal envelopes , automatic recognition of images of human faces , or handwriting image extraction from medical forms .
Artificial neural networks ( neural net classifiers ) and deep learning have many real-world applications in image processing , a few examples :
In psychology , pattern recognition ( making sense of and identifying objects ) is closely related to perception , which explains how the sensory inputs humans receive are made meaningful .
Translation between frames of reference - languages , cultures , modes of expression , or indeed between one person 's thoughts and another - becomes an element in many of the same concepts Hofstadter has addressed in prior works , such as reference and self-reference , structure and function , and artificial intelligence .
In the year 2015 , an estimated 1.64 million industrial robots were in operation worldwide according to International Federation of Robotics .
The most commonly used robot configurations are articulated robot s , SCARA robots , delta robot s and cartesian coordinate robot s , ( gantry robots or x-y-z robots ) .
George Devol applied for the first robotics patent s in 1954 ( granted in 1961 ) .
The first company to produce a robot was Unimation , founded by Devol and Joseph Engelberger in 1956 .
Unimation later licensed their technology to Kawasaki Heavy Industries and GKN , manufacturing Unimate s in Japan and England respectively .
In 1969 Victor Scheinman at Stanford University invented the Stanford arm , an all-electric , 6-axis articulated robot designed to permit an arm solution .
Scheinman then designed a second arm for the MIT Artificial intelligence Lab , called the " MIT arm .
" Scheinman , after receiving a fellowship from Unimation to develop his designs , sold those designs to Unimation who further developed them with support from General Motors and later marketed it as the Programmable Universal Machine for Assembly ( PUMA ) .
Westinghouse sold Unimation to Stäubli Faverges SCA of France in 1988 , which is still making articulated robots for general industrial and cleanroom applications and even bought the robotic division of Bosch in late 2004 .
Only a few non-Japanese companies ultimately managed to survive in this market , the major ones being : Adept Technology , Stäubli , the Sweden - Switzerland company ABB Asea Brown Boveri , the Germany company KUKA Robotics and the Italy company Comau .
According to the International Federation of Robotics ( IFR ) study " World Robotics 2019 " , there were about 2,439,543 operational industrial robots by the end of 2017 .
The International Federation of Robotics has predicted a worldwide increase in adoption of industrial robots and they estimated 1.7 million new robot installations in factories worldwide by 2020 .
Chatbots are typically used in dialog system s for various purposes including customer service , request routing , or for information gathering .
While some chatbot applications use extensive word-classification processes , natural language processing processors , and sophisticated Artificial intelligence , others simply scan for general keywords and generate responses using common phrases obtained from an associated library or database .
In 1950 , Alan Turing ' s famous article " Computing Machinery and Intelligence " was published , which proposed what is now called the Turing test as a criterion of intelligence .
The notoriety of Turing 's proposed test stimulated great interest in Joseph Weizenbaum ' s program ELIZA , published in 1966 , which seemed to be able to fool users into believing that they were conversing with a real human .
One pertinent field of AI research is natural language processing .
Usually , Artificial general intelligence fields employ specialized software or programming languages created specifically for the narrow function required .
For example , A.L.I.C.E. uses a markup language called AIML , which is specific to its function as a dialogue system , and has since been adopted by various other developers of , so-called , Alicebot s .
Some more recent chatbots also combine real-time learning with evolutionary algorithm s that optimise their ability to communicate based on each conversation held .
Still , there is currently no general purpose conversational artificial intelligence , and some software developers focus on the practical aspect , information retrieval .
These Intelligent Chatbots make use of all kinds of artificial intelligence like image moderation and natural language understanding ( NLU ) , natural language generation ( NLG ) , machine learning and deep learning .
The My Friend Cayla doll was marketed as a line of dolls which uses speech recognition technology in conjunction with an Android or iOS mobile app to recognize the child 's speech and have a conversation .
The creation and implementation of chatbots is still a developing area , heavily related to artificial intelligence and machine learning , so the provided solutions , while possessing obvious advantages , have some important limitations in terms of functionalities and use cases .
In signal processing and related disciplines , aliasing is an effect that causes different signals to become indistinguishable ( or " aliases " of one another ) when sampled .
Waves must be sampled more densely than two points per wavelength , or the wave arrival direction becomes ambiguous .
Gary A. Klein found that under time pressure , high stakes , and changing parameters , experts used their base of experience to identify similar situations and intuitively choose feasible solutions .
A digital signal processor ( DSP ) is a specialized microprocessor chip , with its architecture optimized for the operational needs of digital signal processing .
Prior to the advent of stand-alone digital signal processor ( DSP ) chips , early digital signal processing applications were typically implemented using bit-slice chips .
Electronic signal processing was revolutionized in the 1970s by the wide adoption of the MOSFET ( metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistor , or MOS transistor ) ,
Linear predictive coding ( LPC ) was first developed by Fumitada Itakura of Nagoya University and Shuzo Saito of Nippon Telegraph and Telephone ( NTT ) in 1966 , and then further developed by Bishnu S. Atal and Manfred R. Schroeder at Bell Labs during the early-to-mid-1970s , becoming a basis for the first speech synthesizer DSP chips in the late 1970s .
Data acquisition applications are usually controlled by software programs developed using various general purpose programming languages such as Assembly , BASIC , C , C + + , C # , Fortran , Java , LabVIEW , Lisp , Pascal , etc .
Other programming environments that are used to build DAQ applications include ladder logic , Visual C + + , Visual Basic , LabVIEW , and MATLAB .
Computer science often terms this relationship an " is-a " relationship .
Hyponymy is the most frequently encoded relation among synsets used in lexical databases such as WordNet .
This would be difficult , because abstract information ( such as the speakers ' relative ages ) is often not available during machine translation .
It is an adversarial search algorithm used commonly for machine playing of two-player games ( Tic-tac-toe , Chess , Go , etc .
Since the minimax algorithm and its variants are inherently depth-first search , a strategy such as iterative deepening is usually used in conjunction with alpha-beta so that a reasonably good move can be returned even if the algorithm is interrupted before it has finished execution .
Practically every formal introduction to cognitive science stresses that it is a highly interdisciplinary research area in which psychology , neuroscience , linguistics , philosophy , computer science , anthropology , and biology are its principal specialized or applied branches .
Alan Turing -
artificial intelligence -
computational linguistics -
human-computer interaction
machine learning -
Marvin Minsky -
natural language understanding -
neural network -
robotics
speech processing -
speech recognition -
speech synthesis -
He is professor emeritus of psychology and public affairs at Princeton University ' s Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs .
He was married to cognitive psychologist and Royal Society Fellow Anne Treisman , who died on February 9 , 2018 .
Daniel Kahneman was born in Tel Aviv , Mandatory Palestine in 1934 , where his mother , Rachel , was visiting relatives .
He spent his childhood years in Paris , France , where his parents had emigrated from Lithuania in the early 1920s .
His father , Efrayim , was picked up in the first major round-up of French Jews , but he was released after six weeks due to the intervention of his employer , Eugène Schueller .
Kahneman and his family then moved to Mandatory Palestine in 1948 , just before the creation of the state of Israel ( Kahneman , 2003 ) .
Kahneman has written of his experience in Vichy France , explaining in part why he entered the field of psychology :
A young economist named Richard Thaler was a visiting professor at the Stanford branch of the National Bureau of Economic Research during that same year .
Kahneman is a senior scholar and faculty member emeritus at Princeton University ' s Department of Psychology and Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs .
The Ars Electronica Center ( AEC ) is a center for electronic art s run by Ars Electronica situated in Linz , Austria , at the northern side of the Danube opposite the city hall of Linz .
The VOICEBOX speech processing toolbox for MATLAB implements the conversion and its inverse as :
The International Organization for Standardization standard is formally known as ISO / IEC 13250 : 2003 .
Alternatively , it can be used directly with the Perl Module TM ( which also supports LTM ) .
Some work has been undertaken to provide interoperability between the W3C 's RDF / OWL / SPARQL family of semantic web standards and the International Organization for Standardization ' s family of " Topic Maps " standards though the two have slightly different goals .
Business intelligence ( BI ) comprises the strategies and technologies used by enterprises for the data analysis of business information .
Two technologies designed for generating metadata about content are automatic categorization and information extraction .
Major themes include : self-reference in meme s , language , art and logic ; discussions of philosophical issues important in cognitive science / AI ; analogies and what makes something similar to something else ( specifically what makes , for example , an uppercase letter ' A ' recognizable as such ) ; and lengthy discussions of the work of Robert Axelrod on the prisoner 's dilemma , as well as the idea of superrationality .
CBR traces its roots to the work of Roger Schank and his students at Yale University in the early 1980s .
Machine vision as a systems engineering discipline can be considered distinct from computer vision , a form of computer science .
Definitions of the term " Machine vision " vary , but all include the technology and methods used to extract information from an image on an automated basis , as opposed to image processing , where the output is another image .
For problems where finding an approximate global optimum is more important than finding a precise local optimum in a fixed amount of time , simulated annealing may be preferable to alternatives such as gradient descent .
" With mathT = 0 / math the procedure reduces to the greedy algorithm , which makes only the downhill transitions .
In machine learning , the perceptron is an algorithm for supervised learning of binary classification .
The perceptron algorithm was invented in 1958 at the Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory by Frank Rosenblatt ,
In a 1958 press conference organized by the US Navy , Rosenblatt made statements about the perceptron that caused a heated controversy among the fledgling Artificial intelligence community ; based on Rosenblatt 's statements , " The New York Times " reported the perceptron to be " the embryo of an electronic computer that the Navy expects will be able to walk , talk , see , write , reproduce itself and be conscious of its existence .
This caused the field of neural network research to stagnate for many years , before it was recognised that a feedforward neural network with two or more layers ( also called a multilayer perceptron ) had greater processing power than perceptrons with one layer ( also called a single layer perceptron ) .
In 1969 a famous book entitled " Perceptrons " by Marvin Minsky and Seymour Papert showed that it was impossible for these classes of network to learn an XOR function .
It took ten more years until neural network research experienced a resurgence in the 1980s .
The perceptron algorithm is also termed the single-layer perceptron , to distinguish it from a multilayer perceptron , which is a misnomer for a more complicated neural network .
For multilayer perceptron s , where a hidden layer exists , more sophisticated algorithms such as backpropagation must be used .
The perceptron of optimal stability , together with the kernel trick , are the conceptual foundations of the support vector machine .
Other linear classification algorithms include Winnow , support vector machine and logistic regression .
Like most other techniques for training linear classifiers , the perceptron generalizes naturally to multiclass classification .
Since 2002 , perceptron training has become popular in the field of natural language processing for such tasks as part-of-speech tagging and syntactic parsing ( Collins , 2002 ) .
" BattleBots " is an United States robot combat television series .
For five seasons , " BattleBots " aired on the American Comedy Central and was hosted by Bil Dwyer , Sean Salisbury , and Tim Green .
Roski and Munson served as executive producers , joined by Lloyd Braun .
Chris Rose and Kenny Florian return to call the action , provide background information about the bots and teams , and offer commentary .
Jessica Chobot served again as the sideline reporter .
Chris Rose and Kenny Florian returned as hosts with a new sideline reporter , Jenny Taft , interviewing all of the BattleBots competitors in the workshop .
For the first five seasons , " BattleBots " was hosted by Bil Dwyer , Sean Salisbury , and Tim Green .
Correspondents included former " Baywatch " actresses Donna D 'Errico , Carmen Electra , and Traci Bingham , former Playboy Playmate Heidi Mark , comedian Arj Barker and identical twins Randy and Jason Sklar .
The 2015 edition was hosted by Molly McGrath , with Chris Rose and former UFC fighter Kenny Florian as commentators .
The battle arena announcer is Faruq Tauheed , and Alison Haislip conducts interviews on the sidelines and behind the scenes .
The judges are engineers and NASA astronaut Leland Melvin , " Nerdist News " anchor Jessica Chobot and visual effects artist Fon Davis .
For the 2016 season , Samantha Ponder was added as host , replacing Molly McGrath .
The returning judges are Fon Davis , Jessica Chobot , and Leland Melvin , as well as celebrity guest judges actor Clark Gregg , " MythBusters " host and former Battlebots builder Adam Savage , NFL tightend Vernon Davis , and YouTube star Michael Stevens a.k.a. Vsauce .
Overfitting and underfitting can occur in machine learning , in particular .
To lessen the chance of , or amount of , overfitting , several techniques are available ( e.g. model comparison , cross-validation , regularization , early stopping , pruning , Bayesian priors , or dropout ) .
As an extreme example , if there are " p " variables in a linear regression with " p " data points , the fitted line can go exactly through every point .
Graeme Ferguson , Roman Kroitor , Robert Kerr , and William C. Shaw were the co-founders of what would be named the IMAX Corporation ( founded in September 1967 as Multiscreen Corporation , Limited ) , and they developed the first IMAX cinema projection standards in the late 1960s and early 1970s in Canada .
During Expo 67 in Montreal , the National Film Board of Canada ' s " In the Labyrinth " and Ferguson 's " Man and the Polar Regions " both used complex multi-projector , multi-screen systems .
Directors Russo brothers have announced and they have shot " Avengers : Infinity War " ( 2018 ) and " Avengers : Endgame " ( 2019 ) completely with these cameras .
Until 2016 , the world 's largest IMAX screen was in Darling Harbour , Sydney , Australia , and measured
Examples of former IMAX Dome theatres that have had their IMAX equipment replaced with newer equipment include Tietomaa Science Centre in Oulu , Finland ( which replaced its IMAX 8 / 70 equipment from 1988 with a Barco DP4K-32B 4K projection system in 2013 ) , 2017 .
The IMAX HD system was tested in 1992 at the Canada Pavilion of the Seville Expo ' 92 with the film " Momentum " .
In 1995 , French director Jean-Jacques Annaud directed " Wings of Courage " , the first dramatic picture shot for IMAX .
Also in 2004 the studio released Robert Zemeckis ' motion-capture film " The Polar Express " in IMAX 3D .
When James Cameron ' s " Titanic " was restored and re-released in theaters there was also specially made an open-matte version for IMAX .
The process for IMAX theaters , like with the complete restoration , was supervised by Steven Spielberg and sound designer Ben Burtt .
A year later , director Michael Bay was inspired by IMAX 's use in " The Dark Knight " to feature big-screen sequences in " Transformers : Revenge of the Fallen " .
Two years later , Brad Bird ' s " Mission : Impossible - Ghost Protocol " had 25 minutes of footage shot using IMAX cameras .
As with " The Dark Knight " , Christopher Nolan decided to film sequences of the sequel , " The Dark Knight Rises " , in 15 / 70mm IMAX .
J. J. Abrams ' s " Star Trek Into Darkness " , are films that were released between 2013 and 2014 that had sequences filmed with 15 / 70mm IMAX cameras .
The next installment in the franchise Rian Johnson ' s " Star Wars : The Last Jedi " , released in December 2017 , also included sequences shot in IMAX .
Adele ' s music video " Hello , " released in 2015 , became the first music video that was partially filmed with IMAX cameras .
In April 2015 , Marvel Studios announced that Russo brothers ' " Captain America : Civil War " would be the first film to use the new ARRI Alexa IMAX 2D digital camera , which was used to shoot approximately 15 minutes of the film .
Other films between 2016 to 2020 that captured with IMAX camera 's were Zack Snyder ' s " Batman v Superman : Dawn of Justice " , Clint Eastwood ' s " Sully " , Damien Chazelle ' s " First Man " , Patty Jenkins ' " Wonder Woman 1984 " , Cary Joji Fukunaga ' s " No Time to Die " and Joseph Kosinski ' s " Top Gun : Maverick " .
Three Chinese titles have been captured with IMAX digital cameras ; selected scenes in Jiang Wen ' s " Gone with the Bullets " in 2014 , almost all of " Detective Chinatown 3 " in 2020 and " 800 " .
IMAX cameras were also used hand-held for the first time , as Nolan was advised by both Steven Spielberg and Ron Howard that it was the best way to shoot on vessels .
In 1996 , IMAX was awarded the Oscar for Scientific and Technical Achievement by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences .
While on technical aspects and the usage of the IMAX system , only Wally Pfister ' s cinematography on " The Dark Knight " has earned a nomination .
In machine learning , one aims to construct algorithms that are able to " learn " to predict a certain target output .
The system was designed by Rob Pike with coding by Bruce Ellis .
( Netflix is a member of the Motion Picture Association of America ( MPA ) .
Netflix was founded on August 29 , 1997 , in Scotts Valley , California , by Marc Randolph
As of late 2006 , Red Envelope Entertainment also expanded into producing original content with filmmakers such as John Waters .
Netflix sought and was approved for membership into the Motion Picture Association of America ( MPAA ) on January 22 , 2019 , as the first streaming service to become a member of the association .
In early August 2019 , Netflix negotiated an exclusive multi-year film and television deal with " Game of Thrones " showrunners David Benioff and D.B. Weiss reportedly worth US $ 200 million .
The series was produced by David Fincher , and starred Kevin Spacey .
In April 2014 , Netflix signed " Arrested Development " creator Mitchell Hurwitz and his production firm The Hurwitz Company to a multi-year deal to create original projects for the service .
The science fiction drama " Sense8 " debuted in June 2015 , which was written and produced by The Wachowskis and J. Michael Straczynski .
In November 2017 , Netflix announced that it would be making its first original Colombian series , to be executive produced by Ciro Guerra .
In February 2019 , Gwyneth Paltrow ' s lifestyle brand Goop signed a deal to produce a wellness-themed documentary series for Netflix .
In December 2017 , Netflix was awarded People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals ' s Company of the Year for promoting animal rights movies and documentaries like " Forks Over Knives " and " What the Health " .
On January 22 , 2019 , Netflix scored 15 nominations for the 91st Academy Awards , including Best Picture for Alfonso Cuarón ' s " Roma " , which was nominated for 10 awards .
The announcement that Gwyneth Paltrow ' s company Goop had partnered with Netflix led to criticism , noting that the company has frequently been criticized for making unsubstantiated claims about the effectiveness of health treatments and products that it promotes .
Steven Spielberg , governor of the directors branch of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ( AMPAS ) , has been critical of the streaming model over the " communal , " cinema experience , but later clarified his views by arguing that viewers should have access to " great stories , " and be able to " find their entertainment in any form or fashion that suits them .
Beginning at the 2019 Toronto International Film Festival , films may now be restricted from screening at Scotiabank Theatre Toronto - one of the festival 's main venues - and screened elsewhere ( such as TIFF Bell Lightbox and other local cinemas ) if distributed by a service such as Netflix .
According to a blog post by the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy , Netflix reported its largest ever profit in the US for 2018 , but paid nothing in federal or state tax. and at a Fox News town hall event on April 15 , 2019 .
Prince Charles called upon the British Royal Society to investigate the " enormous environmental and social risks " of nanotechnology in a planned report , leading to much media commentary on gray goo .
The underlying model is a hidden Markov model where the state space of the latent variable s is continuous and all latent and observed variables have Gaussian distributions .
It is used in a wide range of engineering and econometric applications from radar and computer vision to estimation of structural macroeconomic models , and is an important topic in control theory and control system s engineering .
A review of this and other models is given in Roweis and Zoubin Ghahramani ( 1999 ) , and Hamilton ( 1994 ) , Chapter 13 .
This process has identical structure to the hidden Markov model , except that the discrete state and observations are replaced with continuous variables sampled from Gaussian distributions .
Expectation-maximization algorithm s may be employed to calculate approximate maximum likelihood estimates of unknown state-space parameters within minimum-variance filters and smoothers .
Ward Cunningham , the inventor of wiki , coauthored a paper with Michael Mehaffy arguing that there are deep relationships between wikis and pattern languages , and that wikis " were in fact developed as tools to facilitate efficient sharing and modifying of patterns .
Machine learning , a branch of artificial intelligence , concerns the construction and study of systems that can learn from data .
Description logics ( DL ) are a family of formal knowledge representation languages .
DLs are used in artificial intelligence to describe and reason about the relevant concepts of an application domain ( known as " terminological knowledge " ) .
The first DL-based KR system was KL-ONE ( by Ronald J. Brachman and Schmolze , 1985 ) .
Since many concepts that are needed for Artificial intelligence lack well defined boundaries , or precisely defined criteria of membership , fuzzy logic is needed to deal with notions of vagueness and imprecision .
At UCSD , Norman was a founder of the Institute for Cognitive Science and one of the organizers of the Cognitive Science Society ( along with Roger Schank , Allan M. Collins , and others ) , which held its first meeting at the UCSD campus in 1979 .
He currently serves on numerous committees and advisory boards like at Motorola , the Toyota National College of Technology , TED Conference , Panasonic , " Encyclopædia Britannica " , and many more .
He returned to academia as a professor of computer science at Northwestern University , where he was co-director of the Segal Design Institute until 2010 .
He received two honorary degree s , one " S. V. della laurea ad honorem " in Psychology from the University of Padua in 1995 and one doctorate in Industrial Design and Engineering from Delft University of Technology .
Hitachi was founded in 1910 by electrical engineer Namihei Odaira in Ibaraki Prefecture .
The company began as an in-house venture of Fusanosuke Kuhara ' s mining company in Hitachi , Ibaraki .
Yamate Works , the oldest of the three factories , was founded in 1910 by Namihei Odaira as an electrical equipment repair and manufacturing facility .
In August 2011 , it was announced that Hitachi would donate an electron microscope to each of five universities in Indonesia ( the University of North Sumatra in Medan , the Indonesian Christian University in Jakarta , Padjadjaran University in Bandung , Jenderal Soedirman University in Purwokerto and Muhammadiyah University in Malang ) .
The Chinese author Xiao Xun wrote that when the Ming Dynasty founder Hongwu ( r .
1368 & ndash ; 1398 ) was destroying the palaces of Khanbaliq belonging to the previous Yuan Dynasty , there were - among many other mechanical devices - automata found that were in the shape of tigers .
Leonardo da Vinci sketched a complex mechanical knight , which he may have built and exhibited at a celebration hosted by Ludovico Sforza at the court of Milan around 1495 .
It is believed that the monk was manufactured by Juanelo Turriano , mechanician to the Holy Roman Emperor Charles V .King , Elizabeth .
Japan adopted clockwork automata in the early 17th century as " karakuri " puppets .
France in the 17th century was the birthplace of those ingenious mechanical toy s that were to become prototypes for the engines of the Industrial Revolution .
In 1769 , a chess-playing machine called the Turk , created by Wolfgang von Kempelen , made the rounds of the courts of Europe purporting to be an automaton .
Belgian-born John Joseph Merlin created the mechanism of the Silver Swan automaton , now at Bowes Museum .
In 1801 , Joseph Marie Jacquard built his loom automaton that was controlled autonomously with punched cards .
The famous magician Jean-Eugène Robert-Houdin ( 1805-1871 ) was known for creating automata for his stage shows .
Contemporary automata are represented by the works of Cabaret Mechanical Theatre in the United Kingdom , Dug North and Chomick + Meder , Arthur Ganson , Joe Jones in the United States , Le Défenseur du Temps by French artist Jacques Monestier , and François Junod in Switzerland .
Since 1990 , Dutch artist Theo Jansen has been building an artificial breed of large automated PVC structures called " Strandbeest ( Beach beast ) " that can walk on wind power or compressed air .
Jansen claims that he intends them to automatically evolve and develop artificial intelligence , with herds roaming freely over the beach .
The potential educational value of mechanical toys in teaching transversal skills has been recognised by the European Union education project " Clockwork objects , enhanced learning : Automata Toys Construction " ( CLOHE ) .
In artificial intelligence ( AI ) , an evolutionary algorithm ( EA ) is a subset of evolutionary computation , a generic population-based metaheuristic optimization algorithm .
This formulation , which is now called machine-state functionalism , or just machine functionalism , was inspired by the analogies which Putnam and others noted between the mind and the theoretical " machines " or computers capable of computing any given algorithm which were developed by Alan Turing ( called Turing machine s ) .
It arose in response to the challenges that Ned Block ' s China Brain ( a.k.a. Chinese nation ) and John Searle ' s Chinese room thought experiments presented for the more traditional forms of functionalism ( see below under " Criticism " ) .
The Chinese room argument by John Searle is a direct attack on the claim that thought can be represented as a set of functions .
The Battle of the Beams was a period early in the Second World War when bombers of the German Air Force ( " Luftwaffe " ) used a number of increasingly accurate systems of radio navigation for night bombing in the United Kingdom .
The first of these new " Knickebein " transmitters was set up in 1939 on Stollberg hill in Nordfriesland near the border with Denmark , at Kleve ( Cleves ) near the Dutch border , almost the most westerly point in Germany , and at Lörrach near the border with France and Switzerland in south-western Germany .
By chance , the Germans had chosen the operating frequency of the " Wotan " system very badly ; it operated on 45 MHz , which just happened to be the frequency of the powerful-but-dormant BBC television transmitter at Alexandra Palace .
This could be particularly important for an artificial intelligence device to learn from people in the way that human children learn through interactions within a social group .
It was originally led by Anthony James Barr in 1966 , then joined by NCSU graduate student James Goodnight in 1967
In the meantime , ABB Chairman Peter Voser was appointed interim CEO on 17 April 2019 , succeeding Ulrich Spiesshofer , who stepped down after five-and-a-half years. and succeeded Hubertus von Grünberg , who had been Chairman since May 2007 .
Jürgen Dormann was chairman from 2002 to 2007 , and Percy Barnevik from 1999 to 2002 .
The first cooperation was started with the Technische Hochschule OWL in Lemgo and leads to the foundation of the Fraunhofer IOSB-INA in the late 2011 .
Lego Mindstorms NXT was a programmable robotics kit released by Lego in July 2006 , replacing the first-generation LEGO Mindstorms kit .
While a clear description of the algorithm on computers appeared in 1946 in an article by John Mauchly , the idea of using a sorted list of items to facilitate searching dates back at least as far as Babylonia in 200 BC .
Followed to the limit , it leads to bottom-up divide-and-conquer algorithms such as dynamic programming and chart parsing .
Solving the Correspondence problem in the field of Computer Vision aims to create meaningful depth information from two images .
With certain assumptions on the function mathF / math ( for example , mathF / math convex and math \ nabla F / math Lipschitz ) and particular choices of math \ gamma / math ( e.g. , chosen either via a line search that satisfies the Wolfe conditions , or the Barzilai-Borwein method shown as following ) ,
In this case , the line search minimization , finding the locally optimal step size math \ gamma / math on every iteration , can be performed analytically , and explicit formulas for the locally optimal math \ gamma / math are known .
For solving linear equations , this algorithm is rarely used , with the conjugate gradient method being one of the most popular alternatives .
The speed of convergence of gradient descent depends on the ratio of the maximum to minimum eigenvalues of mathA ^ TA / math , while the speed of convergence of conjugate gradient method has a more complex dependence on the eigenvalues , and can benefit from preconditioning .
This can be done with any of a variety of line search algorithms .
The gradient descent can take many iterations to compute a local minimum with a required accuracy , if the curvature in different directions is very different for the given function .
The gradient descent can be combined with a line search , finding the locally optimal step size math \ gamma / math on every iteration .
An example is the BFGS method which consists in calculating on every step a matrix by which the gradient vector is multiplied to go into a " better " direction , combined with a more sophisticated line search algorithm , to find the " best " value of math \ gamma .
Gradient descent can be viewed as applying Euler 's method for solving ordinary differential equations mathx ' ( t ) = - \ nabla f ( x ( t ) ) / math to a gradient flow .
Same implementation , to run in Java with JShell ( Java 9 minimum ) : codejshell scriptfile / codesyntaxhighlight lang = " java "
The following MATLAB code demonstrates a concrete solution for solving the non-linear system of equations presented in the previous section : See also
For constrained or non-smooth problems , Nesterov 's FGM is called the fast proximal gradient method ( FPGM ) , an acceleration of the proximal gradient method .
In signal processing , sampling is the reduction of a continuous-time signal to a discrete-time signal .
The Audio Engineering Society recommends 48 kHz sampling rate for most applications but gives recognition to 44.1 kHz for Compact Disc ( CD ) and other consumer uses , 32 kHz for transmission-related applications , and 96 kHz for higher bandwidth or relaxed anti-aliasing filter ing .
However , digital signal processing operations can have very high dynamic range , consequently it is common to perform mixing and mastering operations at 32-bit precision and then convert to 16- or 24-bit for distribution .
In this process , which is known as cross-validation , the MSE is often called the mean squared prediction error , and is computed as
Also in regression analysis , " mean squared error , " often referred to as mean squared prediction error or " out-of-sample mean squared error , " can refer to the mean value of the squared deviations of the predictions from the true values , over an out-of-sample test space , generated by a model estimated over a particular sample space .
Both linear regression techniques such as analysis of variance estimate the MSE as part of the analysis and use the estimated MSE to determine the statistical significance of the factors or predictors under study .
The mathematical benefits of mean squared error are particularly evident in its use at analyzing the performance of linear regression , as it allows one to partition the variation in a dataset into variation explained by the model and variation explained by randomness .
This property , undesirable in many applications , has led researchers to use alternatives such as the mean absolute error , or those based on the median .
However , in the last years , one can observe appearing of different e-services and related initiatives in developing countries such as Project Nemmadi , MCA21 Mission Mode Project or Digital India even more , in India ; Electronic Government Directorate in Pakistan ; etc .
The image of the written text may be sensed " off line " from a piece of paper by optical scanning ( optical character recognition ) or intelligent word recognition .
Where traditional techniques focus on image segmentation individual characters for recognition , modern techniques focus on recognizing all the characters in a segmented line of text .
Particularly they focus on machine learning techniques which are able to learn visual features , avoiding the limiting feature engineering previously used .
State-of-the-art methods use Convolutional neural network to extract visual features over several overlapping windows of a text line image which an RNN uses to produce character probabilities.Puigcerver , Joan .
Author of the first applied pattern recognition program in 1962 was Shelia Guberman , then in Moscow.Guberman is the inventor of the handwriting recognition technology used today by Microsoft in Windows CE .
Since 2009 , the recurrent neural network s and deep feedforward neural networks developed in the research group of Jürgen Schmidhuber at the Swiss AI Lab IDSIA have won several international handwriting competitions ..
In November 1979 , Brock met Aaron Fechter of .
Chuck E. Cheese 's was about to open in the United Kingdom , but somehow pulled out .
Voice actor Duncan Brannan , who for 19 years had characterized Chuck E. Cheese as a wise-cracking rat from New Jersey , was replaced with Jaret Reddick , the frontman and guitarist for the pop punk band Bowling for Soup .
Statistical classification is a problem studied in machine learning .
It is a type of supervised learning , a method of machine learning where the categories are predefined , and is used to categorize new probabilistic observations into said categories .
For example , random forests perform better than Support vector machine classifiers for 3D point clouds .
The column ratios are True Positive Rate ( TPR , aka Sensitivity or recall ) ( TP / ( TP + FN ) ) , with complement the False Negative Rate ( FNR ) ( FN / ( TP + FN ) ) ; and True Negative Rate ( TNR , aka Specificity , SPC ) ( TN / ( TN + FP ) ) , with complement False Positive Rate ( FPR ) ( FP / ( TN + FP ) ) .
The row ratios are Positive Predictive Value ( PPV , aka precision ) ( TP / ( TP + FP ) ) , with complement the False Discovery Rate ( FDR ) ( FP / ( TP + FP ) ) ; and Negative Predictive Value ( NPV ) ( TN / ( TN + FN ) ) , with complement the False Omission Rate ( FOR ) ( FN / ( TN + FN ) ) .
There are a number of other metrics , most simply the accuracy or Fraction Correct ( FC ) , which measures the fraction of all instances that are correctly categorized ; the complement is the Fraction Incorrect ( FiC ) .
In English , WordNet is an example of a semantic network .
Vladimir Vapnik was born to a Jewish family " Estimation of Dependences Based on Empirical Data " , ( Springer Science & Business Media , 28 Sep 2006 ) , By V. Vapnik , page 424 in the Soviet Union .
He received his master 's degree in mathematics from the Samarkand State University , Samarkand , Uzbek Soviet Socialist Republic in 1958 and Ph.D in statistics at the Institute of Control Sciences , Moscow in 1964 .
At the end of 1990 , Vladimir Vapnik moved to the United States and joined the Adaptive Systems Research Department at AT & T Bell Labs in Holmdel , New Jersey .
They demonstrated its performance on a number of problems of interest to the machine learning community , including handwriting recognition .
Vladimir Vapnik was inducted into the U.S. National Academy of Engineering in 2006 .
Machine learning algorithms train a model based on a finite set of training data .
Early-stopping can be used to regularize non-parametric regression problems encountered in machine learning .
It has been shown , for several boosting algorithms ( including AdaBoost ) , that regularization via early stopping can provide guarantees of consistency , that is , that the result of the algorithm approaches the true solution as the number of samples goes to infinity .
More sophisticated forms use cross-validation - multiple partitions of the data into training set and validation set - instead of a single partition into a training set and validation set .
Negative feedback is widely used in mechanical and electronic engineering , and also within living organisms ,
Being focused on " reaction-based " behaviors ( as originally inspired by the work of Rodney Brooks ) , BEAM robotics attempts to copy the characteristics and behaviours of biological organism s , with the ultimate goal of domesticating these " wild " robots .
These " hybrids " fulfill a need for robust control systems with the added flexibility of dynamic programming , like the " horse-and-rider " topology BEAMbots ( e.g. the ScoutWalker 3 ) .
The stochastic matrix was first developed by Andrey Markov at the beginning of the 20th century , and has found use throughout a wide variety of scientific fields , including probability theory , statistics , mathematical finance and linear algebra , as well as computer science and population genetics .
The stochastic matrix was developed alongside the Markov chain by Andrey Markov , a Russian mathematician and professor at Saint Petersburg State University who first published on the topic in 1906 .
John Carmack also experimented with Voxels for the " Quake III " engine .
The Viterbi algorithm is a dynamic programming algorithm for finding the most likely sequence of hidden states & mdash ; called the Viterbi path & mdash ; that results in a sequence of observed events , especially in the context of Markov information source s and hidden Markov model s ( HMM ) .
It is now also commonly used in speech recognition , speech synthesis , diarization , Xavier Anguera et al .
With the algorithm called iterative Viterbi decoding one can find the subsequence of an observation that matches best ( on average ) to a given hidden Markov model .
Suppose we are given a hidden Markov model ( HMM ) with state space mathS / math , initial probabilities math \ pi _ i / math of being in state mathi / math and transition probabilities matha _ { i , j } / math of transitioning from state mathi / math to state mathj / math .
Other ways anomalous propagation is recorded is by troposcatter s causing irregularities in the troposphere , scattering due to meteor s , refraction in the ionized regions and layers of the ionosphere , and reflection from the ionosphere .
The first team with Mark D. Lillibridge , Martín Abadi , Krishna Bharat , and Andrei Broder , used CAPTCHAs in 1997 at AltaVista to prevent bots from adding Uniform Resource Locator ( URLs ) to their web search engine .
Looking for a way to make their images resistant to optical character recognition ( OCR ) attack , the team looked at the manual of their Brother scanner , which had recommendations for improving OCR 's results ( similar typefaces , plain backgrounds , etc .
The controversy of inventorship has been resolved by the existence of a 1997 priority date patent application by Eran Reshef , Gili Raanan and Eilon Solan ( second group )
Modern text-based CAPTCHAs are designed such that they require the simultaneous use of three separate abilities - invariant recognition , image segmentation , and parsing - to correctly complete the task with any consistency .
In the case of image and text based CAPTCHAs , if an AI were capable of accurately completing the task without exploiting flaws in a particular CAPTCHA design , then it would have solved the problem of developing an AI that is capable of complex object recognition in scenes .
There are a few approaches to defeating CAPTCHAs : using cheap human labor to recognize them , exploiting bugs in the implementation that allow the attacker to completely bypass the CAPTCHA , and finally using machine learning to build an automated solver .
In October 2018 at Association for Computing Machinery CCS ' 18 conference , Ye et al. presented a deep learning-based attack that could successfully solve all 11 text captcha schemes used by the top-50 popular website in 2018 with a high success rate .
Data mining is a related field of study , focusing on exploratory data analysis through unsupervised learning .
The term " machine learning " was coined in 1959 by Arthur Samuel , an American IBMer and pioneer in the field of computer gaming and artificial intelligence .
Tom M. Mitchell provided a widely quoted , more formal definition of the algorithms studied in the machine learning field : " A computer program is said to learn from experience " E " with respect to some class of tasks " T " and performance measure " P " if its performance at tasks in " T " , as measured by " P " , improves with experience " E " .
They attempted to approach the problem with various symbolic methods , as well as what were then termed " neural network s " ; these were mostly perceptron s and other models that were later found to be reinventions of the generalized linear model s of statistics .
Machine learning and data mining often employ the same methods and overlap significantly , but while machine learning focuses on prediction , based on " known " properties learned from the training data , data mining focuses on the discovery of ( previously ) " unknown " properties in the data ( this is the analysis step of knowledge discovery in databases ) .
Much of the confusion between these two research communities ( which do often have separate conferences and separate journals , ECML PKDD being a major exception ) comes from the basic assumptions they work with : in machine learning , performance is usually evaluated with respect to the ability to " reproduce known " knowledge , while in knowledge discovery and data mining ( KDD ) the key task is the discovery of previously " unknown " knowledge .
Leo Breiman distinguished two statistical modeling paradigms : data model and algorithmic model , wherein " algorithmic model " means more or less the machine learning algorithms like Random forest .
Semi-supervised learning falls between unsupervised learning ( without any labeled training data ) and supervised learning ( with completely labeled training data ) .
Due to its generality , the field is studied in many other disciplines , such as game theory , control theory , operations research , information theory , simulation-based optimization , multi-agent system s , swarm intelligence , statistics and genetic algorithm s .
Many reinforcement learning algorithms use dynamic programming techniques .
Examples include artificial neural network s , multilayer perceptron s , and supervised dictionary learning .
Examples include dictionary learning , independent component analysis , autoencoder s , matrix factorization and various forms of Cluster analysis .
A popular heuristic method for sparse dictionary learning is the K-SVD algorithm .
In data mining , anomaly detection , also known as outlier detection , is the identification of rare items , events or observations which raise suspicions by differing significantly from the majority of the data .
Learning classifier systems ( LCS ) are a family of rule-based machine learning algorithms that combine a discovery component , typically a genetic algorithm , with a learning component , performing either supervised learning , reinforcement learning , or unsupervised learning .
Inductive logic programming is particularly useful in bioinformatics and natural language processing .
Artificial neural networks have been used on a variety of tasks , including computer vision , speech recognition , machine translation , social network filtering , playing board and video games and medical diagnosis .
Deep learning consists of multiple hidden layers in an artificial neural network .
Some successful applications of deep learning are computer vision and speech recognition .Honglak Lee , Roger Grosse , Rajesh Ranganath , Andrew Y. Ng .
Decision tree learning uses a decision tree as a predictive model to go from observations about an item ( represented in the branches ) to conclusions about the item 's target value ( represented in the leaves ) .
Support vector machines ( SVMs ) , also known as support vector networks , are a set of related supervised learning methods used for classification and regression .
Its most common form is linear regression , where a single line is drawn to best fit the given data according to a mathematical criterion such as ordinary least squares .
When dealing with non-linear problems , go-to models include polynomial regression ( for example , used for trendline fitting in Microsoft Excel ) , Logistic regression ( often used in statistical classification ) or even kernel regression , which introduces non-linearity by taking advantage of the kernel trick to implicitly map input variables to higher dimensional space .
Bayesian networks that model sequences of variables , like speech recognition or protein sequences , are called dynamic Bayesian network s .
In comparison , the K-fold- cross-validation method randomly partitions the data into K subsets and then K experiments are performed each respectively considering 1 subset for evaluation and the remaining K-1 subsets for training the model .
Similarly , investigators sometimes report the False Positive Rate ( FPR ) as well as the False Negative Rate ( FNR ) .
Unsupervised learning is a type of machine learning that looks for previously undetected patterns in a data set with no pre-existing labels and with a minimum of human supervision .
It forms one of the three main categories of machine learning , along with supervised learning and reinforcement learning .
Semi-supervised learning , a related variant , makes use of supervised and unsupervised techniques .
Two of the main methods used in unsupervised learning are principal component analysis and cluster analysis .
Cluster analysis is used in unsupervised learning to group , or segment , datasets with shared attributes in order to extrapolate algorithmic relationships .
Cluster analysis is a branch of machine learning that groups the data that has not been labelled , classified or categorized .
Hebbian Learning has been hypothesized to underlie a range of cognitive functions , such as pattern recognition and experiential learning .
Among neural network models , the self-organizing map ( SOM ) and adaptive resonance theory ( ART ) are commonly used in unsupervised learning algorithms .
It was a key resource for the famous , but ultimately unsuccessful attempt by Singaporean surgeons to separate Iranian twins Ladan and Laleh Bijani in 2003 .
For digital signal processing , the function can be sampled symmetrically as :
MCMC methods are primarily used for calculating numerical approximations of multi-dimensional integrals , for example in Bayesian statistics , computational physics , and computational linguistics .See Gill 2008.See Robert & Casella 2004 .
Interacting Markov chain Monte Carlo methods can also be interpreted as a mutation-selection Genetic algorithm with Markov chain Monte Carlo mutations .
In audio / voice codecs , a quadrature mirror filter pair is often used to implement a filter bank that splits an input signal processing into two bands .
The contest was launched in 1990 by Hugh Loebner in conjunction with the Cambridge Center for Behavioral Studies , Massachusetts , United States .
It has also been associated with Flinders University , Dartmouth College , the Science Museum in London , University of Reading and Ulster University , Magee Campus , Derry , UK City of Culture .
Within the field of artificial intelligence , the Loebner Prize is somewhat controversial ; the most prominent critic , Marvin Minsky , called it a publicity stunt that does not help the field along .
For the three entries in 2007 , Robert Medeksza , Noah Duncan and Rollo Carpenter , some basic " screening questions " were used by the sponsor to evaluate the state of the technology .
The judges included the University of Reading 's cybernetics professor , Kevin Warwick , a professor of artificial intelligence , John Barnden ( specialist in metaphor research at the University of Birmingham ) , a barrister , Victoria Butler-Cole and a journalist , Graham Duncan-Rowe .
The judges were : computer science professor Russ Abbott , philosophy professor Hartry Field , psychology assistant professor Clayton Curtis and English lecturer Scott Hutchins .
The 2008 competition was organised by professor Kevin Warwick , coordinated by Huma Shah and held on October 12 at the University of Reading , United Kingdom .
The 2009 Loebner Prize Competition was held September 6 , 2009 at the Brighton Centre , Brighton UK in conjunction with the Interspeech 2009 conference .
The winner was Bruce Wilcox with Suzette .
The four finalists and their chatterbots were Bruce Wilcox ( Rosette ) , Adeena Mignogna ( Zoe ) , Mohan Embar ( Chip Vivant ) and Ron Lee ( Tutor ) , who finished in that order .
The 2012 Loebner Prize Competition was held on the 15th of May in Bletchley Park in Bletchley , Buckinghamshire , England , in honor of the Alan Turing centenary celebrations .
The judges were Professor Roger Schank ( Socratic Arts ) , Professor Noel Sharkey ( Sheffield University ) , Professor Minhua ( Eunice ) Ma ( Huddersfield University , then University of Glasgow )
Many machine learning practitioners believe that properly optimized feature extraction is the key to effective model construction .
One very important area of application is image processing , in which algorithm s are used to detect and isolate various desired portions or shapes ( features ) of a digitized image or video stream .
It is particularly important in the area of optical character recognition .
Common numerical programming environments such as MATLAB , SciLab , NumPy , Sklearn and the R language provide some of the simpler feature extraction techniques ( e.g. principal component analysis ) via built-in commands .
" The Language Instinct " is a 1994 book by Steven Pinker , written for a general audience .
In signal processing and statistics , a window function ( also known as an apodization function or tapering functiondata-sequence is " multiplied " by a window function , the product is also zero-valued outside the interval : all that is left is the part where they overlap , the " view through the window .
In signal processing , operations are chosen to improve some aspect of quality of a signal by exploiting the differences between the signal and the corrupting influences .
named after Julius von Hann , and sometimes referred to as " Hanning " , presumably due to its linguistic and formulaic similarities to the Hamming window .
The Association of British Insurers considers the usage of the word " autonomous " in marketing for modern cars to be dangerous because car ads make motorists think ' autonomous ' and ' autopilot ' means a vehicle can drive itself when they still rely on the driver to ensure safety .
On 18 March 2018 , Death of Elaine Herzberg became the first pedestrian to be killed by a self-driving car in the United States after being hit by an Uber vehicle , also in Tempe .
As of April 2017 , it is possible to conduct public road tests for development vehicles in Hungary , furthermore the construction of a closed test track , the ZalaZone test track ,
Certain directors have also taken more experimental approaches to 3D filmmaking , most notably celebrated auteur Jean-Luc Godard in his films " 3X3D "
The first practical forms of photography were introduced in January 1839 by Louis Daguerre and Henry Fox Talbot .
Charles Wheatstone got inventor Henry Fox Talbot to produce some calotype pairs for the stereoscope and received the first results in October 1840 .
Thomas Edison demonstrated his phonograph on 29 November 1877 , after previous announcements of the device for recording and replaying sound had been published earlier in the year .
In the late 1890s , British film pioneer William Friese-Greene filed a patent for a 3D film process .
On June 10 , 1915 , Edwin S. Porter and William E. Waddell presented tests to an audience at the Astor Theater in New York City .
In red-green anaglyph , the audience was presented three reels of tests , which included rural scenes , test shots of Marie Doro , a segment of John B. Mason playing a number of passages from " Jim the Penman " ( a film released by Famous Players-Lasky that year , but not in 3D ) , Oriental dancers , and a reel of footage of Niagara Falls .Denig , Lynde .
However , according to Adolph Zukor in his 1953 autobiography " The Public Is Never Wrong : My 50 Years in the Motion Picture Industry " , nothing was produced in this process after these tests .
German film tycoon Oskar Messter had initially gained much financial success with the Tonbild synchronized sound film s of his Biophon system since 1903 , but the films were losing money by the end of the decade and Messter would stop Tonbild production in 1913 .
In 1913 , Walter R. Booth directed 10 films for the U.K. Kinoplastikon , presumably in collaboration with Cecil Hepworth .
Kelley then struck a deal with Samuel Roxy Rothafel to premiere the first in his series of " Plasticon " shorts entitled " Movies of the Future " at the Rivoli Theater in New York City .
During Christmas of 1952 , producer Sol Lesser quickly premiered the dual-strip showcase called " Stereo Techniques " in Chicago .
Two of them , " Now is the Time ( to Put On Your Glasses ) " and " Around is Around " , were directed by Norman McLaren in 1951 for the National Film Board of Canada .
Another early 3D film during the boom was the Lippert Productions short , " A Day in the Country " , narrated by Joe Besser and composed mostly of test footage .
It was also the film that typecast Vincent Price as a horror star as well as the " King of 3-D " after he became the actor to star in the most 3D features ( the others were " The Mad Magician " , " Dangerous Mission " , and " Son of Sinbad " ) .
Following that was Paramount 's first feature , " Sangaree " with Fernando Lamas and Arlene Dahl .
Columbia released several 3D westerns produced by Sam Katzman and directed by William Castle .
Producer Jules White was optimistic about the possibilities of 3D as applied to slapstick ( with pies and other projectiles aimed at the audience ) , but only two of his stereoscopic shorts were shown in 3D .
John Ireland , Joanne Dru and Macdonald Carey starred in the Jack Broder color production " Hannah Lee " , which premiered June 19 , 1953 .
20th Century Fox produced their only 3D feature , " Inferno " in 1953 , starring Rhonda Fleming .
and " Fun in the Sun " , a sports short directed by famed set designer / director William Cameron Menzies , who also directed the 3D feature " The Maze " for Allied Artists .
The film , adapted from the popular Cole Porter Broadway musical , starred the MGM songbird team of Howard Keel and Kathryn Grayson as the leads , supported by Ann Miller , Keenan Wynn , Bobby Van , James Whitmore , Kurt Kasznar and Tommy Rall .
Several other features that helped put 3D back on the map that month were the John Wayne feature " Hondo " ( distributed by Warner Bros. ) , Columbia 's " Miss Sadie Thompson " with Rita Hayworth , and Paramount 's " Money From Home " with Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis .
Arch Oboler once again had the vision for the system that no one else would touch , and put it to use on his film entitled " The Bubble " , which starred Michael Cole , Deborah Walley , and Johnny Desmond .
In the mid-1980s , IMAX began producing non-fiction films for its nascent 3D business , starting with " We Are Born of Stars " ( Roman Kroitor , 1985 ) .
The Walt Disney Company also began more prominent use of 3D films in special venues to impress audiences with Magic Journeys ( 1982 ) and " Captain EO " ( Francis Ford Coppola , 1986 , starring Michael Jackson ) being notable examples .
In the same year , the National Film Board of Canada production " Transitions " ( Colin Low ) , created for Expo 86 in Vancouver , was the first IMAX presentation using polarized glasses .
" Echoes of the Sun " ( Roman Kroitor , 1990 ) was the first IMAX film to be presented using alternate-eye shutterglass technology , a development required because the dome screen precluded the use of polarized technology .
Films of special note during this period include the extremely successful " Into the Deep " ( Graeme Ferguson , 1995 ) and the first IMAX 3D fiction film " Wings of Courage " ( 1996 ) , by director Jean-Jacques Annaud , about the pilot Henri Guillaumet .
In 2003 , " Ghosts of the Abyss " by James Cameron was released as the first full-length 3D IMAX feature filmed with the Reality Camera System .
" The Butler 's in Love " , a short film directed by David Arquette and starring Elizabeth Berkley and Thomas Jane was released on June 23 , 2008 .
Expo II was announced as being the locale for the world premiere of several films never before seen in 3D , including " The Diamond Wizard " and the Universal short , " Hawaiian Nights " with Mamie Van Doren and Pinky Lee .
Film critic Mark Kermode , a noted detractor of 3D , has surmised that there is an emerging policy of distributors to limit the availability of 2D versions , thus " railroading " the 3D format into cinemas whether the paying filmgoer likes it or not .
Film critic Mark Kermode Mark Kermode .
Director Christopher Nolan has criticised the notion that traditional film does not allow depth perception , saying " I think it 's a misnomer to call it 3D versus 2D .
The 2D brightness cinema standard is 14 foot-lambert s ( 48 candela per square metre ) , as set by the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers standard 196M .
Filmmakers who have criticized the quality of this process include James Cameron ( whose film " Avatar " was created mostly in 3D from the ground up , with some portions of the film created in 2D , Cameron 's " Titanic " was converted into 3D in 2012 , taking 60 weeks and costing $ 18 million .
Actress Nichelle Nichols reportedly protested this scene , as she felt that Uhura , as communications officer during what was effectively a cold war , would be trained in fluent Klingon to aid in such situations .
Since 1999 , Oz has been continually developed by an international group , the Mozart Consortium , which originally consisted of Saarland University , the Swedish Institute of Computer Science , and the Université catholique de Louvain .
Spectrograms are used extensively in the fields of music , sonar , radar , and speech processing , JL Flanagan , Speech Analysis , Synthesis and Perception , Springer- Verlag , New York , 1972 seismology , and others .
Creating a spectrogram using the FFT is a Digital signal processing .
The Pattern Playback was an early speech synthesizer , designed at Haskins Laboratories in the late 1940s , that converted pictures of the acoustic patterns of speech ( spectrograms ) back into sound .
Connectionists are in agreement that recurrent neural networks ( directed networks wherein connections of the network can form a directed cycle ) are a better model of the brain than feedforward neural networks ( directed networks with no cycles , called DAG ) .
A very common strategy in connectionist learning methods is to incorporate gradient descent over an error surface in a space defined by the weight matrix .
Backpropagation ( BP ) , first made popular in the 1980s , is probably the most commonly known connectionist gradient descent algorithm today .
PDP 's direct roots were the perceptron theories of researchers such as Frank Rosenblatt from the 1950s and 1960s .
But perceptron models were made very unpopular by the book " Perceptrons " by Marvin Minsky and Seymour Papert , published in 1969 .
But by the early 20th century , Edward Thorndike was experimenting on learning that posited a connectionist type network .
The hybrid approach has been advocated by some researchers ( such as Ron Sun ) .
As connectionism became increasingly popular in the late 1980s , some researchers ( including Jerry Fodor , Steven Pinker and others ) reacted against it .
In 2014 , Alex Graves and others from DeepMind published a series of papers describing a novel Deep Neural Network structure called the Neural Turing Machine able to read symbols on a tape and store symbols in memory .
The inverted pendulum is a classic problem in dynamics and control theory and is widely used as a benchmark for testing control algorithms ( PID controller s , state space representation , neural networks , fuzzy control , genetic algorithm s , etc .
Čapek was born in Hronov , Bohemia ( Austria-Hungary , later Czechoslovakia , now the Czech Republic ) in 1887 .
Events are held worldwide , and are most popular in the United Kingdom , United States , Japan , Singapore , India , South Korea and becoming popular in subcontinent countries such as Sri Lanka .
In signal processing , a sinc filter is an idealized filter that removes all frequency components above a given cutoff frequency , without affecting lower frequencies , and has linear phase response .
What we learn from robots playing soccer or navigating a maze can be applied to industry and help us solve difficult real-world problems , " according to Professor Maurice Pagnucco , Head of the School of Computer Science and Engineering at University of New South Wales .
The formal RoboCup competition was preceded by the ( often unacknowledged ) first International Micro Robot World Cup Soccer Tournament ( MIROSOT ) held by KAIST in Taejon , Korea , in November 1996 .
This was won by an United States team from Newton Labs , and the competition was shown on CNN .
In computer science , evolutionary computation is a family of algorithm s for global optimization inspired by biological evolution , and the subfield of artificial intelligence and soft computing studying these algorithms .
Evolutionary computation techniques can produce highly optimized solutions in a wide range of problem settings , making them popular in computer science .
" Evolutionary programming " was introduced by Lawrence J. Fogel in the US , while John Henry Holland called his method a " genetic algorithm " .
In Germany Ingo Rechenberg and Hans-Paul Schwefel introduced " evolution strategies " .
Simulations of evolution using evolutionary algorithm s and artificial life started with the work of Nils Aall Barricelli in the 1960s , and was extended by Alex Fraser , who published a series of papers on simulation of artificial selection .
The concept of deconvolution is widely used in the techniques of signal processing and image processing .
However , by formulating the problem as the solution of a Toeplitz matrix and using Levinson recursion , we can relatively quickly estimate a filter with the smallest mean squared error possible .
In signal processing , a signal is a function that conveys information about a phenomenon .
Information theory serves as the formal study of signals and their content , and the information of a signal is often accompanied by noise .
In the latter half of the 20th century , electrical engineering itself separated into several disciplines , specialising in the design and analysis of systems that manipulate physical signals ; electronic engineering and computer engineering as examples ; while design engineering developed to deal with functional design of user-machine interfaces .
For example , in information theory , a " signal " is a codified message , that is , the sequence of states in a communication channel that encodes a message .
In the context of signal processing , signals are analog and digital representations of analog physical quantities .
Particularly in digital signal processing , a digital signal may be defined as a sequence of discrete values , typically associated with an underlying continuous-valued physical process .
Although S and S falls under and includes all the topics covered in this article , as well as Analog signal processing and Digital signal processing , it actually is a subset of the field of Mathematical model ing .
Today , the field has become even more daunting and complex with the addition of circuit , systems and signal analysis and design languages and software , from MATLAB and Simulink to NumPy , VHDL , PSpice , Verilog and even Assembly language .
Critical thinking employs not only logic but broad intellect ual criteria such as clarity , credibility , accuracy , precision , relevance , depth , breadth , significance , and fairness .
Under the OCR exam board , students can sit two exam papers for the AS : " Credibility of Evidence " and " Assessing and Developing Argument .
OCR exam board have also modified theirs for 2008 .
In Qatar , critical thinking was offered by AL-Bairaq - an outreach , non-traditional educational program that targets high school students and focuses on a curriculum based on STEM fields .
Scott Lilienfeld notes that there is some evidence to suggest that basic critical thinking skills might be successfully taught to children at a younger age than previously thought .
The topic has also been studied in the fields of computer vision and astronomy .
In knowledge representation , object-oriented programming and design ( see object-oriented program architecture ) , is-a ( is _ a or is a ) is a subsumption See Liskov substitution principle .
PCFGs extend context-free grammar s similar to how hidden Markov model s extend regular grammar s .
These probabilities can be viewed as parameters of the model , and for large problems it is convenient to learn these parameters via machine learning .
PCFGs have application in areas as diverse as natural language processing to the study the structure of RNA molecules and design of programming language s .
PCFGs models extend context-free grammar s the same way as hidden Markov model s extend regular grammar s .
Dynamic programming variants of the CYK algorithm find the Viterbi parse of a RNA sequence for a PCFG model .
Note that gaps are treated as unknown bases and the summation can be done through dynamic programming .
MFCCs are commonly used as features in speech recognition T. Ganchev , N. Fakotakis , and G. Kokkinakis ( 2005 ) , " , " in " 10th International Conference on Speech and Computer ( SPECOM 2005 ) , " Vol .
have been " data-to-text " systems which automatic summarization of databases and data sets ; these
systems usually perform data analysis as well as text generation .
A content generation tool based on web mining using search engines APIs has been built .
Several companies have been started since 2009 which build systems that transform data into narrative using NLG and Artificial intelligence techniques .
Gaussian process regression can be further extended to address learning tasks in both Supervised learning ( e.g. probabilistic classification ) learning frameworks .
Telerobotics is the area of robotics concerned with the control of semi-autonomous robots from a distance , chiefly using Wireless network ( like Wi-Fi , Bluetooth , the Deep Space Network , and similar ) or tethered connections .
This also allows more direct teleoperation as the user can motion capture .Miller , Nathan , et al .
NIST maintains a set of test standards used for Emergency Response
A neural network is described by a directed acyclic graph " G " ( " V " , " E " ) , where :
It is named after the Russia n mathematician Andrey Markov .Markov , A. A. ( 1954 ) .
The term Markov assumption is used to describe a model where the Markov property is assumed to hold , such as a hidden Markov model .
Such a model is known as a Markov model .
McCarthy was one of the founders of the discipline of artificial intelligence .
John McCarthy is one of the " founding fathers " of artificial intelligence , together with Alan Turing , Marvin Minsky , Allen Newell , and Herbert A. Simon .
In 1966 , McCarthy and his team at Stanford wrote a computer program used to play a series of chess games with counterparts in the Soviet Union ; McCarthy 's team lost two games and drew two games ( see Kotok-McCarthy ) .
" In 1980 the philosopher John Searle responded with his famous Chinese Room Argument , disagreeing with McCarthy and taking the stance that machines cannot have beliefs simply because they are not conscious .
( currently Yamaha Corporation ) was established in 1887 as a piano and reed organ manufacturer by Torakusu Yamaha in Hamamatsu , Shizuoka prefecture and was incorporated on October 12 , 1897 .
It was a 125cc , single cylinder , two-stroke , street bike patterned after the Germany DKW RT125 ( which the United Kingdom munitions firm , BSA , had also copied in the post-war era and manufactured as the " Bantam " and Harley-Davidson as the " Hummer " ) .
Yamaha has grown to become the world 's largest manufacturer of musical instruments ( including pianos , " silent " pianos , drum s , guitar s , brass instruments , woodwind s , violin s , viola s , celli , and vibraphone s ) , as well as a leading manufacturer of semiconductor s , audio / visual , computer related products , sporting goods , home appliance s , specialty metals and industrial robot s .
Yamaha announced the singing synthesizer Vocaloid for the first time at the Germany fair Musikmesse on March 5-9 , 2003 .
They are often used in natural language processing for performing statistical analysis of texts and in cryptography for control and use of cipher s and code s .
MM is also the foundation of morphological image processing , which consists of a set of operators that transform images according to the above characterizations .
Mathematical Morphology was developed 1964 by the collaborative work of Georges Matheron and Jean Serra , at the " École des Mines de Paris " , France .
In 1993 , the first International Symposium on Mathematical Morphology ( ISMM ) took place in Barcelona , Spain .
By combining these operators one can obtain algorithms for many image processing tasks , such as feature extraction , image segmentation , image sharpening , image filtering , and classification .
Some thinkers working in the field of artificial life ( for example Rodney Brooks ) have also produced non-cognitivist models of cognition .
The idea that mental functions can be described as information processing models has been criticised by philosopher John Searle and mathematician Roger Penrose who both argue that computation has some inherent shortcomings which cannot capture the fundamentals of mental processes .
Formal concept analysis finds practical application in fields including data mining , text mining , machine learning , knowledge management , semantic web , software development , chemistry and biology .
The theory in its present form goes back to the early 1980s and a research group led by Rudolf Wille , Bernhard Ganter and Peter Burmeister at the Technische Universität Darmstadt .
The main purpose of these tools varies from formal context creation to formal concept mining and generating the concepts lattice of a given formal context and the corresponding implications and association rules .
In computer science , local search is a heuristic method for solving computationally hard optimization problems .
Local search algorithms are widely applied to numerous hard computational problems , including problems from computer science ( particularly artificial intelligence ) , mathematics , operations research , engineering , and bioinformatics .
Quantization , in mathematics and digital signal processing , is the process of mapping input values from a large set ( often a continuous set ) to output values in a ( countable ) smaller set , often with a finite number of elements .
When the quantization step size ( Δ ) is small relative to the variation in the signal being quantized , it is relatively simple to show that the mean squared error produced by such a rounding operation will be approximately math \ Delta ^ 2 / 12 / math.math
This two-stage decomposition applies equally well to vector quantization as well as scalar quantizers .
If it is assumed that distortion is measured by mean squared error , the distortion D , is given by :
Lloyd 's Method I algorithm , originally described in 1957 , can be generalized in a straightforward way for application to vector quantization data .
This generalization results in the Linde-Buzo-Gray ( LBG ) or k-means clustering classifier optimization methods .
( 2005 ) we can differ three different perspectives of text mining , namely text mining as information extraction , text mining as text data mining , and text mining as Data mining ( Knowledge Discovery in Databases ) process.Hotho , A. , Nürnberger , A. and Paaß , G. ( 2005 ) .
High-quality information is typically derived through the devising of patterns and trends through means such as pattern recognition .
Typical text mining tasks include text categorization , text clustering , concept / entity extraction , production of granular taxonomies , sentiment analysis , document summarization , and entity relation modeling ( " i.e. " , learning relations between named entity recognition ) .
Text analysis involves information retrieval , lexical analysis to study word frequency distributions , pattern recognition , tagging / annotation , information extraction , data mining techniques including link and association analysis , visualization , and predictive analytics .
The overarching goal is , essentially , to turn text into data for analysis , via application of natural language processing ( NLP ) , different types of algorithm s and analytical methods .
The term text analytics describes a set of linguistic , statistical , and machine learning techniques that model and structure the information content of textual sources for business intelligence , exploratory data analysis , research , or investigation. notably life-sciences research and government intelligence .
Scientific researchers incorporate text mining approaches into efforts to organize large sets of text data ( i.e. , addressing the problem of unstructured data ) , to determine ideas communicated through text ( e.g. , sentiment analysis in social media ) and to support scientific discovery in fields such as the life sciences and bioinformatics .
Sentiment analysis may involve analysis of movie reviews for estimating how favorable a review is for a movie .
Resources for affectivity of words and concepts have been made for WordNet { { cite journal
Key enabling technologies have been parsing , machine translation , topic categorization , and machine learning .
Under European copyright and database law s , the mining of in-copyright works ( such as by web mining ) without the permission of the copyright owner is illegal .
The European Commission facilitated stakeholder discussion on text and data mining in 2013 , under the title of Licenses for Europe .
For his MA thesis ( 1963 ) he completed a study of change in the dialect of Martha 's Vineyard , which was presented before the Linguistic Society of America .
Labov took his PhD ( 1964 ) at Columbia University studying under Uriel Weinreich .
He has been married to fellow sociolinguist Gillian Sankoff since 1993 and they have two children : Rebecca Labov and sociologist Alice Goffman .
Among Labov 's well-known students are Charles Boberg , Anne H. Charity Hudley , Penelope Eckert , Gregory Guy , Robert A. Leonard , Geoffrey Nunberg , Shana Poplack , and John R. Rickford .
Labov has received honorary doctorates from , among others , the Faculty of Humanities at Uppsala University ( 1985 ) and University of Edinburgh ( 2005 ) .
In 2015 he was awarded the Neil and Saras Smith Medal for Linguistics by the British Academy " for lifetime achievement in the scholarly study of linguistics " and " his significant contribution to linguistics and the language sciences .
In 2020 , Labov will be awarded the American Academy of Arts and Sciences ' Talcott Parsons Prize , recognizing " distinguished and original contributions to the social sciences .
The simplest greedy algorithm places consecutive labels on the map in positions that result in minimal overlap of labels .
Another class of direct search algorithms are the various evolutionary algorithm s , e.g. genetic algorithm s .
For example , when labelling a map of the world , United States is labelled independently from Eurasia etc .
Plots relating performance to experience are widely used in machine learning .
Generally speaking all learning displays incremental change over time , but describes an Sigmoid function which has different appearances depending on the time scale of observation .
Eurotra was an ambitious machine translation project established and funded by the European Commission from 1978 until 1992 .
The project was unusual in that rather than consisting of a single research team , it had member groups distributed around the member countries , organised along language rather than national lines ( for example , groups in Leuven and Utrecht worked closely together ) , and the secretariat was based at the European Commission in Luxembourg .
While Eurotra never delivered a " working " MT system , the project made a far-reaching long-term impact on the nascent language industries in European member states , in particular among the southern countries of Greece , Italy , Spain , and Portugal .
There is at least one commercial MT system ( developed by an academic / commercial consortium in Denmark ) derived from Eurotra technology .
In signal processing , undersampling or bandpass sampling is a technique where one samples a bandpass -filtered signal at a sample rate below its Nyquist rate ( twice the upper cutoff frequency ) , but is still able to reconstruct the signal .
A weaker form of stationarity commonly employed in signal processing is known as weak-sense stationarity , wide-sense stationarity ( WSS ) , or covariance stationarity .
The story formed the basis of the novel " The Positronic Man " ( 1992 ) , co-written with Robert Silverberg , and the 1999 film " Bicentennial Man " , starring Robin Williams .
Edge detection is a fundamental tool in image processing , machine vision and computer vision , particularly in the areas of feature detection and feature extraction .
In 2007 , Yamaha established the Philippines operations and distributes Yamaha motorcycles under the corporate name of Yamaha Motor Philippines , Inc .
According to the " MST3K " storyline , Crow - like his fellow robots Tom Servo , Gypsy , and Cambot - was built by Joel Robinson ( Joel Hodgson ) , who created them to help him withstand the torment of watching bad movies on the " Satellite of Love " .
This arose from a gag in episode 203 " Jungle Goddess " following a skit centered on the sitcom " The Honeymooners " , where Joel referred to Crow as " Art Crow " ( in reference to " Honeymooners " co-star Art Carney ) .
Crow was voiced by Trace Beaulieu from the beginning of the series through the end of season seven , and Bill Corbett from the eighth season until the tenth season .
He is voiced by Hampton Yount in the 2017 series revival .
In the earlier seasons of the show , he often announced " Ladies and gentlemen , " Topo Gigio " ! " in the voice of Ed Sullivan .
When Joel Hodgson returned for a guest spot in episode 1001 , " Soultaker " , he offhandedly suggests that Crow " changed his bowling pin " ( that is , his mouth ) .
The book is an expansion of the Jacob Bronowski Memorial Lecture in Natural Philosophy which Sagan gave at the University of Toronto .
He describes the voice he got the part with as a combination of a sloppy drunk , Slim Pickens , and a character one of his college friends created named " Charlie the sausage-lover .
Being the show 's breakout character , Bender has made several cameos in different episodes of " The Simpsons " , another series by Matt Groening .
A well known application has been automatic speech recognition , to cope with different speaking speeds .
A k-nearest neighbors algorithm can achieve state-of-the-art performance when using dynamic time warping as a distance measure .
Another related approach are hidden Markov model s ( HMM ) and it has been shown that the Viterbi algorithm used to search for the most likely path through the HMM is equivalent to stochastic DTW .
On simple control tasks , the NEAT algorithm often arrives at effective networks more quickly than other contemporary neuro-evolutionary techniques and reinforcement learning methods .
In computer science , multiple buffering is the use of more than one buffer to hold a block of data , so that a " reader " will see a complete ( though perhaps old ) version of the data , rather than a partially updated version of the data being created by a " writer " .
Image analysis tasks can be as simple as reading bar code d tags or as sophisticated as facial recognition system .
It involves the fields of computer vision or machine vision , and medical imaging , and makes heavy use of pattern recognition , digital geometry , and signal processing .
This field of computer science developed in the 1950s at academic institutions such as the MIT A.I. Lab , originally as a branch of artificial intelligence and robotics .
2D images are , for example , to be analyzed in computer vision , and 3D images in medical imaging .
The first microcomputer-based image database retrieval system was developed at MIT , in the 1990s , by Banireddy Prasaad , Amar Gupta , Hoo-min Toong , and Stuart Madnick .
A conceptual graph ( CG ) is a formalism for knowledge representation .
In the first published paper on CGs , John F. Sowa applied them to a wide range of topics in artificial intelligence , computer science , and cognitive science .
An eigenface ( The approach of using eigenfaces for Facial recognition system was developed by Sirovich and Kirby ( 1987 ) and used by Matthew Turk and Alex Pentland in face classification.Turk , Matthew A and Pentland , Alex P. " Face recognition using eigenfaces " .
Sirovich and Kirby ( 1987 ) showed that principal component analysis could be used on a collection of face images to form a set of basis features .
A set of eigenfaces can be generated by performing a mathematical process called principal component analysis ( PCA ) on a large set of images depicting different human faces .
The technique used in creating eigenfaces and using them for recognition is also used outside of face recognition : handwriting recognition , lip reading , voice recognition , sign language / hand gestures interpretation and medical imaging analysis .
Another method similar to the eigenface technique is ' fisherface s ' which uses linear discriminant analysis .Belhumeur , P N , and Hespanha , { J , P } , and Kriegman , D. ' , 1997 .
In mathematical optimization , Dantzig ' s simplex algorithm ( or simplex method ) is a popular algorithm for linear programming .
Other algorithms for solving linear-programming problems are described in the linear programming article .
Linear-fractional programming ( LFP ) is a generalization of linear programming ( LP ) .
These introductions are written for students of computer science and operations research :
An artificial neuron is a mathematical function conceived as a model of biological neuron s , a neural network .
One important and pioneering artificial neural network that used the linear threshold function was the perceptron , developed by Frank Rosenblatt .
The representation of the threshold values as a bias term was introduced by Bernard Widrow in 1960 - see ADALINE .
The possibility of differentiating the activation function allows the direct use of the gradient descent and other optimization algorithms for the adjustment of the weights .
The best known training algorithm called backpropagation has been rediscovered several times but its first development goes back to the work of Paul Werbos .
Crucially , for instance , any multilayer perceptron using a " linear " transfer function has an equivalent single-layer network ; a non-linear function is therefore necessary to gain the advantages of a multi-layer network .
See : Linear transformation , Harmonic analysis , Linear filter , Wavelet , Principal component analysis , Independent component analysis , Deconvolution .
A fairly simple non-linear function , the sigmoid function such as the logistic function also has an easily calculated derivative , which can be important when calculating the weight updates in the network .
It was previously commonly seen in multilayer perceptron s .
The reason is that the gradients computed by the backpropagation algorithm tend to diminish towards zero as activations propagate through layers of sigmoidal neurons , making it difficult to optimize neural networks using multiple layers of sigmoidal neurons .
In bioinformatics , neighbor joining is a bottom-up ( agglomerative ) Cluster analysis method for the creation of phylogenetic trees , created by Naruya Saitou and Masatoshi Nei in 1987 .
Neighbor joining may be viewed as a greedy algorithm for optimizing a tree according to the ' balanced minimum evolution ' ( BME ) criterion .
This makes it practical for analyzing large data sets ( hundreds or thousands of taxa ) and for bootstrapping , for which purposes other means of analysis ( e.g. maximum parsimony , maximum likelihood ) may be computation ally prohibitive .
Question answering ( QA ) is a computer science discipline within the fields of information retrieval and natural language processing ( NLP ) , which is concerned with building systems that automatically answer questions posed by humans in a natural language .
SHRDLU was a highly successful question-answering program developed by Terry Winograd in the late 1960s and early 1970s .
The 1970s and 1980s saw the development of comprehensive theories in computational linguistics , which led to the development of ambitious projects in text comprehension and question answering .
One example of such a system was the Unix Consultant ( UC ) , developed by Robert Wilensky at U.C. Berkeley in the late 1980s .
Another project was LILOG , a natural language understanding system that operated on the domain of tourism information in a German city .
In information retrieval , an open domain question answering system aims at returning an answer in response to the user 's question .
The system uses a combination of techniques from computational linguistics , information retrieval and knowledge representation for finding answers .
" part-of-speech tagging and syntactic parsing techniques can also be used to determine the answer type .
A lexical dictionary such as WordNet can then be used for understanding the context .
Once the question type has been identified , an information retrieval system is used to find a set of documents containing the correct key words .
IBM 's question answering system , Watson , defeated the two greatest Jeopardy ! champions , Brad Rutter and Ken Jennings , by a significant margin .
James S. Albus of the National Institute of Standards and Technology ( NIST ) developed the Robocrane , where the platform hangs from six cables instead of being supported by six jacks .
Jeremy Clarkson presented the first series , with " Master of Mayhem " Craig Charles taking over for the second to seventh series .
Philippa Forrester co-hosted the first three series , the fifth , sixth and Extreme 2 .
The fourth series and Extreme 1 were co-hosted by Julia Reed and the seventh by Jayne Middlemiss .
The revived series were hosted by Dara Ó Briain and Angela Scanlon .
Jonathan Pearce provided commentary for all series .
Additional series were filmed at the UK venue for specific sectors of the global market , including two series of " Robot Wars Extreme Warriors " with United States competitors for the TNN network ( hosted by Mick Foley with Rebecca Grant serving as pit reporter ) , two of " Dutch Robot Wars " for distribution in the Netherlands and a single series for Germany .
The fourth series of the UK " Robot Wars " was shown in the US on TNN as " Robot Wars : Grand Champions " in 2002 and hosted by Chyna .
The Controller of BBC Two , Michael Jackson , attended the event , which was not filmed and he promised to commission a series .
A second rebooted series was commissioned with a first celebrity special in 16 years , in which celebrities , such as Olympians Kadeena Cox and Alistair Brownlee and Jonny Brownlee , TV presenters Suzi Perry , Neil Oliver and Maggie Aderin-Pocock , singer Jordan Stevens and radio presenters Scott Mills and Robbie Savage had bespoke robots designed for them by eight major roboteers , who mentored them during the specials .
The first series of " Robot Wars " was presented by Jeremy Clarkson and co-hosted by Philippa Forrester .
Clarkson left " Robot Wars " after the first series and was replaced with Craig Charles .
When the programme moved to Channel 5 for the seventh series , Forrester did not return for unknown reasons , so Jayne Middlemiss took over the pit reporter duties .
Jonathan Pearce was the show 's commentator throughout its entire run , becoming one of only two people ( the other being judge Noel Sharkey ) to appear in every episode of the programme ; he commentated in the same loud and enthusiastic manner as his football commentaries .
In 2016 , Dara Ó Briain and Angela Scanlon were announced as the hosts of the eighth series , with Jonathan Pearce returning as commentator .
All episodes were announced by Jonathan Pearce .
Yahoo ! Babel Fish should not be confused with The Babel Fish Corporation founded by Oscar Jofre ,
Like other similar languages such as APL and MATLAB , R supports matrix arithmetic .
Although used mainly by statisticians and other practitioners requiring an environment for statistical computation and software development , R can also operate as a general matrix calculation toolbox - with performance benchmarks comparable to GNU Octave or MATLAB .
These packages are developed primarily in R , and sometimes in Java , C , C + + , and Fortran .
R functionality is accessible from several scripting languages such as Python , are available as well .
Magnetic ink character recognition code , known in short as MICR code , is a Optical character recognition technology used mainly by the banking industry to streamline the processing and clearance of cheques and other documents .
MICR encoded documents can be processed much faster and more accurately than conventional Optical character recognition encoded documents .
The MICR E-13B font has been adopted as the international standard in International Organization for Standardization 1004 : 1995 , and is the standard in Australia , Canada , the United Kingdom , the United States , as well as Central America and much of Asia , besides other countries .
The trial of MICR E13B font was shown to the American Bankers Association ( ABA ) in July 1956 , which adopted it in 1958 as the MICR standard for negotiable document s in the United States .
( May , 1977 ) In 1963 , ANSI adopted the ABA 's E13B font as the American standard for MICR printing , ANSI standard X9.27-1995 and ANSI standard ANS X9.7-1990. and E13B was also standardized as International Organization for Standardization 1004 : 1995 .
The CMC-7 font was developed in France by Groupe Bull in 1957 .
In most of the cases this activity concerns processing human language texts by means of natural language processing ( NLP ) .
The discipline of information retrieval ( IR ) has developed automatic methods , typically of a statistical flavor , for indexing large document collections and classifying documents .
Another complementary approach is that of natural language processing ( NLP ) which has solved the problem of modelling human language processing with considerable success when taking into account the magnitude of the task .
Tim Berners-Lee , inventor of the world wide web , refers to the existing Internet as the web of " documents " Until this transpires , the web largely consists of unstructured documents lacking semantic metadata .
Applying information extraction to text is linked to the problem of text simplification in order to create a structured view of the information present in free text .
Machine learning techniques , either Supervised learning or Unsupervised learning , have been used to induce such rules automatically .
OSINT in the United States traces its origins to the creation of the Foreign Broadcast Monitoring Service ( FBMS ) , an agency responsible for the monitoring of foreign broadcasts .
In computer science , computational learning theory ( or just learning theory ) is a subfield of artificial intelligence devoted to studying the design and analysis of machine learning algorithms .
Theoretical results in machine learning mainly deal with a type of inductive learning called supervised learning .
For example , PAC theory inspired boosting , VC theory led to support vector machine s , and Bayesian inference led to belief networks .
Miller wrote several books and directed the development of WordNet , an online word-linkage database usable by computer programs .
For many years starting from 1986 , Miller directed the development of WordNet , a large computer-readable electronic reference usable in applications such as search engines .
The book was a scientific study of language , emphasizing quantitative data , and was based on the mathematical model of Claude Shannon ' s information theory .
Reviewing the book , Charles E. Osgood classified the book as a graduate-level text based more on objective facts than on theoretical constructs .
Contemporary usage of " mechanical philosophy " dates back to 1952 and Marie Boas Hall .
In France the mechanical philosophy spread mostly through private academies and salons ; in England in the Royal Society .
Experts in pattern recognition maintain that the " eyeball " technique is still the most effective procedure for searching arbitrary , possibly unknown structures in data.Hans-Jürgen Zimmermann ( 2001 ) " Fuzzy Set Theory--and Its Applications , " ,
An examination of the development in artificial intelligence that has followed reveals that the learning machine did take the abstract path suggested by Turing as in the case of Deep Blue , a chess playing computer developed by IBM and one which defeated the world champion Garry Kasparov ( though , this too is controversial ) and the numerous computer chess games which can outplay most amateurs .
In computing , especially digital signal processing , the multiply-accumulate operation is a common step that computes the product of two numbers and adds that product to an accumulator .
When done with floating point numbers , it might be performed with two rounding s ( typical in many DSP s ) , or with a single rounding .
However , floating-point numbers have only a certain amount of mathematical precision .
In science fiction , female-appearing robots are often produced for use as domestic servants and sexual slaves , as seen in the film " Westworld " , Paul J. McAuley ' s novel " Fairyland " ( 1995 ) , and Lester del Rey ' s short story " Helen O 'Loy " ( 1938 ) , and sometimes as warriors , killers , or laborers .
The first gynoid in film , the maschinenmensch ( " machine-human " ) , also called " Parody , " " Futura , " " Robotrix , " or the " Maria impersonator , " in Fritz Lang ' s " Metropolis " is also an example : a femininely shaped robot is given skin so that she is not known to be a robot and successfully impersonates the imprisoned Maria and works convincingly as an exotic dancer .
While not truly Artificial intelligence , the fembots still had extremely sophisticated programming that allowed them to pass for human in most situations .
" The 1964 TV series " My Living Doll " features a robot , portrayed by Julie Newmar , who is similarly described .
Jack Halberstam writes that these gynoids inform the viewer that femaleness does not indicate naturalness , and their exaggerated femininity and sexuality is used in a similar way to the title character 's exaggerated masculinity , lampooning stereotypes .
In the film " Westworld " , female robots actually engaged in intercourse with human men as part of the make-believe vacation world human customers paid to attend .
He taught there from 2004 until 2009 when he became a professor of artificial intelligence at the Università della Svizzera Italiana in Lugano , Switzerland .
With his students Sepp Hochreiter , Felix Gers , Fred Cummins , Alex Graves , and others , Schmidhuber published increasingly sophisticated versions of a type of recurrent neural network called the long short-term memory ( LSTM ) .
In 2011 , Schmidhuber 's team at IDSIA with his postdoc Dan Ciresan also achieved dramatic speedups of convolutional neural network s ( CNNs ) on fast parallel computers called GPU s .
In 2014 , Schmidhuber formed a company , Nnaisense , to work on commercial applications of artificial intelligence in fields such as finance , heavy industry and self-driving car s .
Sepp Hochreiter , Jaan Tallinn , and Marcus Hutter are advisers to the company .
The first was given by Harald Bohr .
The theory was developed using other norms by Besicovitch , Stepanov , Weyl , von Neumann , Alan Turing , Bochner and others in the 1920s and 1930s .
In speech processing , audio signal processing , and music synthesis , a quasiperiodic signal , sometimes called a quasiharmonic signal , is a waveform that is virtually periodic microscopically , but not necessarily periodic macroscopically .
Solomonoff 's theory of inductive inference is Ray Solomonoff ' s mathematical formalization of Occam 's razor .
The theory is based in philosophical foundations , and was founded by Ray Solomonoff around 1960.Samuel Rathmanner and Marcus Hutter .
Time series are used in statistics , signal processing , pattern recognition , econometrics , mathematical finance , weather forecasting , earthquake prediction , electroencephalography , control engineering , astronomy , communications engineering , and largely in any domain of applied science and engineering which involves temporal measurements .
Methods of time series analysis may also be divided into Linear regression and non-linear , and univariate and multivariate .
In the context of signal processing , control engineering and communication engineering it is used for signal detection and estimation .
To some extent the different problems ( regression , classification , fitness approximation ) have received a unified treatment in statistical learning theory , where they are viewed as supervised learning problems .
See Kalman filter , Estimation theory , and Digital signal processing
A Hidden Markov model ( HMM ) is a statistical Markov model in which the system being modeled is assumed to be a Markov process with unobserved ( hidden ) states .
HMM models are widely used in speech recognition , for translating a time series of spoken words into text .
Due to limits in computing power , current " in silico " methods usually must trade speed for accuracy ; e.g. , use rapid protein docking methods instead of computationally costly free energy calculation s .
Work units are a fraction of the simulation between the states in a Markov model .
He is also the creator of several little-known methods such as the trimean and median-median line , an easier alternative to linear regression .
In statistics , exploratory data analysis ( EDA ) is an approach to data analysis data set s to summarize their main characteristics , often with visual methods .
The " S " programming language inspired the systems ' S ' -PLUS and " R " .
This family of statistical-computing environments featured vastly improved dynamic visualization capabilities , which allowed statisticians to identify outlier s , trends and pattern recognition in data that merited further study .
Many EDA techniques have been adopted into data mining .
The Open University course " Statistics in Society " ( MDST 242 ) , took the above ideas and merged them with Gottfried Noether ' s work , which introduced statistical inference via coin-tossing and the median test .
If we use least squares to fit a function in the form of a hyperplane " ŷ " = " a " + " β " supT / sup " x " to the data ( " x " sub " i " / sub , " y " sub " i " / sub ) sub 1 ≤ " i " ≤ " n " / sub , we could then assess the fit using the mean squared error ( MSE ) .
In most other regression procedures ( e.g. logistic regression ) , there is no simple formula to compute the expected out-of-sample fit .
For example , for binary classification problems , each case in the validation set is either predicted correctly or incorrectly .
When the value being predicted is continuously distributed , the mean squared error , root mean squared error or median absolute deviation could be used to summarize the errors .
An extreme example of accelerating cross-validation occurs in linear regression , where the results of cross-validation have a closed-form expression known as the " prediction residual error sum of squares " ( PRESS ) .
For example , suppose we are interested in optical character recognition , and we are considering using either support vector machines ( SVM ) or " k " -nearest neighbors ( KNN ) to predict the true character from an image of a handwritten character .
Marr integrated results from psychology , artificial intelligence , and neurophysiology into new models of visual processing .
The Marr Prize , one of the most prestigious awards in computer vision , the " David Marr Medal " awarded every two years by the " Applied Vision Association " in the UK , also awards a Marr Prize for the best student paper at its annual conference .
He put forth ( in concert with Tomaso Poggio ) the idea that one must understand information processing systems at three distinct , complementary levels of analysis .
A digital organism is a self-replicating computer program that mutates and Evolutionary algorithm .
The first to solve the issue of program brittleness was Thomas S. Ray with his Tierra system , which was similar to core world .
Descendants of the CLIPS language include Jess ( rule-based portion of CLIPS rewritten in Java , it later grew up in different direction ) , " JESS was originally inspired
Fodor was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences .
Fodor 's notions of mental modularity , informational encapsulation and domain specificity were taken up and expanded , much to Fodor 's chagrin , by cognitive scientists such as Zenon Pylyshyn and evolutionary psychologists such as Steven Pinker and Henry Plotkin , among many others .
In addition , CSAIL hosts the World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ) .
The program manager responsible for the DARPA grant was J. C. R. Licklider , who had previously been at MIT conducting research in RLE , and would later succeed Fano as director of Project MAC .
Project MAC would become famous for groundbreaking research in operating system s , artificial intelligence , and the theory of computation .
An " AI Group " including Marvin Minsky ( the director ) , John McCarthy ( inventor of Lisp ) and a talented community of computer programmer s was incorporated into the newly formed Project MAC .
In the late 1960s , Minsky 's artificial intelligence group was seeking more space , and was unable to get satisfaction from project director Licklider .
Talented programmers such as Richard Stallman , who used TECO to develop EMACS , flourished in the AI Lab during this time .
Two professors , Hal Abelson and Gerald Jay Sussman , chose to remain neutral - their group was referred to variously as Switzerland and Project MAC for the next 30 years .
These projects are run under the aegis of CSAIL and staffed by MIT volunteers who give training , install and donate computer setups in greater Boston , Massachusetts , Kenya , Native American Indian tribal reservations in the American Southwest such as the Navajo Nation , the Middle East , and Fiji Islands .
The Hough transform is a feature extraction technique used in image analysis , computer vision , and digital image processing .
The term " Audio-Animatronics " was coined by Walt Disney in 1961 when he started developing animatronics for entertainment and film .
Directors such as Steven Spielberg and Jim Henson have been pioneers in using animatronics in the film industry .
The 1993 film " Jurassic Park " used a combination of computer-generated imagery in conjunction with life-sized animatronic dinosaurs built by Stan Winston and his team .
Often referred to as a " robot skeleton , " Peterson is a radio-controlled animatronic robot puppet designed and built by Grant Imahara of " MythBusters " .
Adam 14 : 05 , 24 Jan 2004 ( UTC )
Adam 14 : 52 , 24 Jan 2004 ( UTC )
OMR is generally distinguished from optical character recognition ( OCR ) by the fact that a complicated pattern recognition engine is not required .
Neuroevolution , or neuro-evolution , is a form of artificial intelligence that uses evolutionary algorithm s to generate artificial neural network s ( ANN ) , parameters , topology and rules. and evolutionary robotics .
The main benefit is that neuroevolution can be applied more widely than supervised learning , which require a syllabus of correct input-output pairs .
Neuroevolution is commonly used as part of the reinforcement learning paradigm , and it can be contrasted with conventional deep learning techniques that use gradient descent on a neural network with a fixed topology .
Many common statistic s , including t-test s , regression models , design of experiments , and much else , use least squares methods applied using linear regression theory , which is based on the quadratic loss function .
Two very commonly used loss functions are the mean squared error , mathL ( a ) = a ^ 2 / math , and the absolute loss , mathL ( a ) = | a | / math .
Software packages like MATLAB , GNU Octave , Scilab , and SciPy provide convenient ways to apply these different methods .
" The Mind Doesn 't Work That Way " , a reaction to Steven Pinker ' s " How the Mind Works " , is devoted to this subject .
It is written in Python .
It is used for research in different areas including dynamic stability , human-robot interaction and machine learning .
Neuromorphic engineering is an interdisciplinary subject that takes inspiration from biology , physics , mathematics , computer science , and electronic engineering to design artificial neural systems , such as vision systems , head-eye systems , auditory processors , and autonomous robots , whose physical architecture and design principles are based on those of biological nervous systems .
Research at HP Labs on Mott memristors has shown that while they can be non- volatile , the volatile behavior exhibited at temperatures significantly below the phase transition temperature can be exploited to fabricate a neuristor ,
" Racter " is an artificial intelligence computer program that generates English language prose at random .
In 1857 , at the request of the Tokugawa Shogunate , a group of Dutch engineers began work on the " Nagasaki Yotetsusho " , a modern , Western-style foundry and shipyard near the Dutch settlement of Dejima , at Nagasaki .
These connections made Nagasaki a legitimate target for strategic bombing during World War II by the Allies of World War II air force s , which later dropped an atomic bomb on the city on August 9 , 1945 .
On November 28 , 2018 , Mitsubishi Heavy Industries was ordered by the South Korea Supreme Court to pay 150m won ( $ 133,000 ; £ 104,000 ) in compensation to 10 surviving Koreans who were victims of forced labor which the company oversaw during the Korea under Japanese rule .
This FIFO queue -based implementation yields a breadth-first search .
A stack ( LIFO queue ) will yield a depth-first search algorithm .
" present a generalization of branch and bound that also subsumes the A * , B * and alpha-beta search algorithms from artificial intelligence .
The Stanford heuristic programming projects led by Edward Feigenbaum was one of the leaders in defining and developing the first expert systems .
It was first used by Lawrence J. Fogel in the US in 1960 in order to use simulated evolution as a learning process aiming to generate artificial intelligence .
The company has international locations in Australia , Brazil , Canada , China , Germany , India , Italy , Japan , Korea , Lithuania , Poland , Malaysia , the Philippines , Russia , Singapore , South Africa , Spain , Taiwan , Thailand , Turkey and the United Kingdom .
A measure of credit risk , FICO score s are available through all of the major consumer reporting agencies in the United States : Equifax , Experian , and TransUnion .
A stenomask is useful for speech recognition applications , because it allows voice transcription in noisy environments .
Early interest in the relationship between brain function and social cognition includes the case of Phineas Gage , whose behaviour was reported to have changed after an accident damaged one or both of his frontal lobes .
For example , it has been suggested that some aspects of psychological processes that promote social behavior ( such as facial recognition ) may be innate .
DSSs which perform selected cognitive decision-making functions and are based on artificial intelligence or intelligent agent s technologies are called intelligent decision support system s ( IDSS )
In statistics , an expectation-maximization ( EM ) algorithm is an iterative method to find maximum likelihood or maximum a posteriori ( MAP ) estimates of parameter s in statistical model s , where the model depends on unobserved latent variable s .
The EM algorithm is used to find ( local ) maximum likelihood parameters of a statistical model in cases where the equations cannot be solved directly .
If the value of the parameters math \ boldsymbol \ theta / math is known , usually the value of the latent variables math \ mathbf { Z } / math can be found by maximizing the log-likelihood over all possible values of math \ mathbf { Z } / math , either simply by iterating over math \ mathbf { Z } / math or through an algorithm such as the Baum-Welch algorithm for hidden Markov model s .
Other methods exist to find maximum likelihood estimates , such as gradient descent , conjugate gradient , or variants of the Gauss-Newton algorithm .
The EM algorithm can be viewed as two alternating maximization steps , that is , as an example of coordinate descent .
EM is frequently used for data clustering in machine learning and computer vision .
In natural language processing , two prominent instances of the algorithm are the Baum-Welch algorithm for hidden Markov models , and the inside-outside algorithm for unsupervised induction of probabilistic context-free grammar s .
An updated measurement noise variance estimate can be obtained from the maximum likelihood calculation
The EM algorithm has been implemented in the case where an underlying linear regression model exists explaining the variation of some quantity , but where the values actually observed are censored or truncated versions of those represented in the model .
In image processing and photography , a color histogram is a representation of the distribution of colors in an image .
In computer science , geometric hashing is originally a method for efficiently finding two-dimensional objects represented by discrete points that have undergone an affine transformation ( example below is based on similarity transformation ) , though extensions exist to some other object representations and transformations .
Geometric hashing was originally suggested in computer vision for object recognition in 2D and 3D ,
The Sobel operator , sometimes called the Sobel-Feldman operator or Sobel filter , is used in image processing and computer vision , particularly within edge detection algorithms where it creates an image emphasising edges .
The Roberts cross operator is used in image processing and computer vision for edge detection .
It has been widely applied in various computer vision systems .
In data mining and statistics , hierarchical clustering ( also called hierarchical cluster analysis or HCA ) is a method of cluster analysis which seeks to build a hierarchy of clusters .
In general , the merges and splits are determined in a greedy algorithm manner .
evolutionary algorithm methods , combined with developmental processes , constitute the " evo-devo " approach for generation and optimization of complex structures .
Collaborative filtering ( CF ) is a technique used by recommender system s .
The growth of the Internet has made it much more difficult to effectively information extraction from all the available online information .
Collaborative filtering encompasses techniques for matching people with similar interests and making recommender system on this basis .
A popular method to find the similar users is the Locality-sensitive hashing , which implements the Nearest neighbor search in linear time .
In this approach , models are developed using different data mining , machine learning algorithms to predict users ' rating of unrated items .
Bayesian networks , Cluster Analysis , latent semantic models such as singular value decomposition , probabilistic latent semantic analysis , multiple multiplicative factor , latent Dirichlet allocation and Markov decision process based models .
In this sense , methods like singular value decomposition , Principal component analysis , known as latent factor models , compress user-item matrix into a low-dimensional representation in terms of latent factors .
A frame language is a technology used for knowledge representation in artificial intelligence .
For example , the Object Management Group has standardized specifications for capabilities such as associating test data and constraints with objects ( analogous to common uses for facets in Frames and to constraints in Frame languages such as Loom ) and for integrating rule engines .
Data analysis is a multidisciplinary field .
In such cases , cloud computing and open source programming language R can help smaller banks to adopt risk analytics and support branch level monitoring by applying predictive analytics .
However , children from Iran and China develop theory of mind in a slightly different order .
To make it easier for animals , young children , and individuals with classical ( Leo Kanner -type ) autism to understand and perform theory of mind tasks , researchers have developed tests in which verbal communication is de-emphasized : some whose administration does not involve verbal communication on the part of the examiner , some whose successful completion does not require verbal communication on the part of the subject , and some that meet both of the foregoing standards .
A line pair in image processing is this : on a test pattern consisting of closely spaced black parallel lines on a white background , a line pair is one black line together with the white space on one side of it .
After serving water to host Stephen Fry and dancing with comedian Jo Brand , ASIMO won with 32 points .
In order to write dynamic programming equations , consider the above multistage problem backward in time .
The first picture to be scanned , stored , and recreated in digital pixels was displayed on the Standards Eastern Automatic Computer ( SEAC ) at NIST .
In computational linguistics , lemmatisation is the algorithmic process of determining the lemma of a word based on its intended meaning .
Unlike stemming , lemmatisation depends on correctly identifying the intended part of speech and meaning of a word in a sentence , as well as within the larger context surrounding that sentence , such as neighboring sentences or even an entire document .
Lemmatisation is closely related to stemming .
Nonetheless , stemming reduces precision , or true negative rate , for such systems .
Morphological processing of biomedical text can be more effective by a specialised lemmatisation program for biomedicine , and may improve the accuracy of practical information extraction tasks .
Computational semiotics is an interdisciplinary field that applies , conducts , and draws on research in logic , mathematics , the theory and practice of computer science , formal and natural language studies , the cognitive science s generally , and semiotics proper .
A common theme of this work is the adoption of a sign-theoretic perspective on issues of artificial intelligence and knowledge representation .
Many of its applications lie in the field of human-computer interaction ( HCI ) and fundamental devices of recognition .
Existing work provides methods for automated opposition analysis and generation of semiotic squares has suggested that a new field of Natural Semiotic Processing should emerge to extend natural language processing into areas such as persuasive technology , marketing and brand analysis that have significant cultural or non-linguistic aspects .
In computer vision , image segmentation is the process of partitioning a digital image into multiple segments ( sets of pixel s , also known as image objects ) .
Several popular methods are used in industry including the maximum entropy method , balanced histogram thresholding , Otsu 's method ( maximum variance ) , and k-means clustering .
The K-means algorithm is an iterative technique that is used to Cluster analysis into " K " clusters .
In this technique , a histogram is computed from all of the pixels in the image , and the peaks and valleys in the histogram are used to locate the Cluster analysis in the image .
This approach segments based on active objects and a static environment , resulting in a different type of segmentation useful in video tracking .
Trainable segmentation methods , such as neural network segmentation , overcome these issues by modeling the domain knowledge from a dataset of labeled pixels .
An image segmentation neural network can process small areas of an image to extract simple features such as edges .
Pulse-coupled neural networks ( PCNNs ) are neural models proposed by modeling a cat 's visual cortex and developed for high-performance biomimetic image processing .
U-Net is a convolutional neural network which takes as input an image and outputs a label for each pixel .
Techniques such as dynamic Markov Networks , Convolutional neural network and Long short-term memory are often employed to exploit the inter-frame correlations .
Geoffrey Everest Hinton ( born 6 December 1947 ) is an English Canadian cognitive psychologist and Computer science , most noted for his work on artificial neural networks .
Since 2013 he divides his time working for Google ( Google Brain ) and the University of Toronto .
With David E. Rumelhart and Ronald J. Williams , Hinton was co-author of a highly cited paper published in 1986 that popularized the backpropagation algorithm for training multi-layer neural networks , The dramatic image-recognition milestone of the AlexNet designed by his student Alex Krizhevsky { { cite web
Hinton - together with Yoshua Bengio and Yann LeCun - are referred to by some as the " Godfathers of AI " and " Godfathers of Deep Learning .
Hinton 's research investigates ways of using neural networks for machine learning , memory , perception and symbol processing .
While Hinton was a professor at Carnegie Mellon University ( 1982-1987 ) , David E. Rumelhart and Hinton and Ronald J. Williams applied the Backpropagation to multi-layer neural networks .
Their experiments showed that such networks can learn useful Knowledge representation of data .
In 2007 Hinton coauthored an unsupervised learning paper titled " Unsupervised learning of image transformations " .
Notable former PhD students and postdoctoral research ers from his group include Richard Zemel , and Zoubin Ghahramani .
In 2016 , he was elected a foreign member of National Academy of Engineering " For contributions to the theory and practice of artificial neural networks and their application to speech recognition and computer vision .
Together with Yann LeCun , and Yoshua Bengio , Hinton won the 2018 Turing Award for conceptual and engineering breakthroughs that have made deep neural networks a critical component of computing .
Behavior-based robotics ( BBR ) or behavioral robotics is an approach in robotics that focuses on robots that are able to exhibit complex-appearing behaviors despite little internal variable state to model its immediate environment , mostly gradually correcting its actions via sensory-motor links .
Classic artificial intelligence typically uses a set of steps to solve problems , it follows a path based on internal representations of events compared to the behavior-based approach .
The school of behavior-based robots owes much to work undertaken in the 1980s at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology by Rodney Brooks , who with students and colleagues built a series of wheeled and legged robots utilizing the subsumption architecture .
The Tin Woodman , also known as the Tin Man or - mistakenly - the " Tin Woodsman , " is a character in the fictional Land of Oz created by United States author L. Frank Baum .
The Tin Woodman appears in the 2011 TV series " Once Upon a Time " episode " Where Bluebirds Fly " portrayed by Austin Obiajunwa ( as a teenager ) and by Alex Désert ( as an adult ) .
In statistics and machine learning , classifying certain types of data is a problem for which good algorithms exist that are based on this concept .
Classifying data is a common task in machine learning .
In the case of support vector machine s , a data point is viewed as a " p " -dimensional vector ( a list of " p " numbers ) , and we want to know whether we can separate such points with a ( " p " & minus ; 1 ) -dimensional hyperplane .
A pulse in signal processing is a rapid , transient change in the amplitude of a signal from a baseline value to a higher or lower value , followed by a rapid return to the baseline value.Ángela Molina , Joaquín González , " Pulse Voltammetry in Physical Electrochemistry and Electroanalysis " , Springer , 2015 .
In 1979 , Christopher Tyler of Smith-Kettlewell Institute , a student of Julesz and a visual psychophysicist , combined the theories behind single-image wallpaper stereograms and random-dot stereograms ( the work of Julesz and Schilling ) to create the first black-and-white " random-dot autostereogram " ( also known as single-image random-dot stereogram ) with the assistance of computer programmer Maureen Clarke using Apple II and BASIC .Tyler , Christopher W. ( 1983 ) .
The causality of systems also plays an important role in digital signal processing , where filters are constructed so that they are causal , sometimes by altering a non-causal formulation to remove the lack of causality so that it is realizable .
Applications include distributional clustering and dimension reduction , and more recently it has been suggested as a theoretical foundation for deep learning .
For example , in the arts , " Romantic " can refer specifically to a period of Germany poetry roughly from 1780-1810 , but would exclude the later work of Goethe , among other writers .
In music it can mean every composer from Johann Nepomuk Hummel through Rachmaninoff , plus many that came after .
Much long-range comparison work has been from Russian linguists like Vladislav Illich-Svitych and Sergei Starostin .
To explain Lenna 's popularity , David C. Munson , editor-in-chief of " Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Transactions on Image Processing " , noted that it was a good test image because of its detail , flat regions , shading , and texture .
A 2012 paper on compressed sensing used a photo of the model Fabio Lanzoni as a test image to draw attention to this issue .
It is a commonly used term in electronics , mathematics , acoustics , and image processing .
Counting zero-crossings is also a method used in speech processing to estimate the fundamental frequency of speech .
In the field of Digital Image Processing , great emphasis is placed on operators which seek out edges within an image .
It is used in automated theorem prover s , inference engine s , proof assistant s , and other artificial intelligence applications .
Backward chaining systems usually employ a depth-first search strategy , e.g. Prolog .
To be specific , the BIBO stability criterion requires that the ROC of the system includes the unit circle .
In mathematics and in signal processing , the Hilbert transform is a specific linear operator that takes a function , " u " ( " t " ) of a real variable and produces another function of a real variable " H " ( " u " ) ( " t " ) .
In signal processing the Hilbert transform of " u " ( " t " ) is commonly denoted by math \ widehat u ( t ) / math ( e.g. , ) .
The MATLAB function ,
Decision tree learning is one of the predictive modeling approaches used in statistics , data mining and machine learning .
It uses a decision tree ( as a predictive model ) to go from observations about an item ( represented in the branches ) to conclusions about the item 's target value ( represented in the leaves ) .
In data mining , a decision tree describes data ( but the resulting classification tree can be an input for decision making ) .
This page deals with decision trees in data mining .
In data mining , decision trees can be described also as the combination of mathematical and computational techniques to aid the description , categorization and generalization of a given set of data .
Decision trees used in data mining are of two main types :
Information gain is based on the concept of entropy and information content from information theory .
Examples include Salford Systems CART ( which licensed the proprietary code of the original CART authors ) , IBM SPSS Modeler , RapidMiner , SAS Enterprise Miner , Matlab , R ( an open-source software environment for statistical computing , which includes several CART implementations such as rpart , party and randomForest packages ) , Weka ( a free and open-source data-mining suite , contains many decision tree algorithms ) , Orange , KNIME , Microsoft SQL Server programming language ) .
Sequential pattern mining discovers subsequences that are common to more than minsup sequences in a sequence database , where minsup is set by the user .
Advanced gene finders for both prokaryotic and eukaryotic genomes typically use complex probabilistic model s , such as hidden Markov model s ( HMMs ) to combine information from a variety of different signal and content measurements .
The SNAP gene finder is HMM-based like Genscan , and attempts to be more adaptable to different organisms , addressing problems related to using a gene finder on a genome sequence that it was not trained against. also use machine learning techniques like support vector machines for successful gene prediction .
Artificial neural networks are computational models that excel at machine learning and pattern recognition .
FragGeneScan and MetaGeneAnnotator are popular gene prediction programs based on Hidden Markov model .
Data analysis such as regression or classification can be done in the reduced space more accurately than in the original space .
The data transformation may be linear , as in principal component analysis ( PCA ) , but many nonlinear dimensionality reduction techniques also exist.Samet , H. ( 2006 ) " Foundations of Multidimensional and Metric Data Structures " .
A different approach to nonlinear dimensionality reduction is through the use of autoencoder s , a special kind of feed-forward neural network s with a bottle-neck hidden layer.Hongbing Hu , Stephen A. Zahorian , ( 2010 ) .
The underlying theory is close to the support vector machine s ( SVM ) insofar as the GDA method provides a mapping of the input vectors into high-dimensional feature space .
For high-dimensional datasets ( i.e. with number of dimensions more than 10 ) , dimension reduction is usually performed prior to applying a K-nearest neighbors algorithm ( k-NN ) in order to avoid the effects of the curse of dimensionality .Kevin Beyer , Jonathan Goldstein , Raghu Ramakrishnan , Uri Shaft ( 1999 ) .
Feature extraction and dimension reduction can be combined in one step using principal component analysis ( PCA ) , linear discriminant analysis ( LDA ) , canonical correlation analysis ( CCA ) , or non-negative matrix factorization ( NMF ) techniques as a pre-processing step followed by clustering by K-NN on feature vectors in reduced-dimension space .
In machine learning this process is also called low-dimensional embedding .
Applications are digital image processing ( e.g. , blurring effects , skeletonizing ) , motion planning in robotics , and even pathfinding .
The first true and complete remote surgery was conducted on 7 September 2001 across the Atlantic Ocean , with French surgeon ( Dr. Jacques Marescaux ) in New York City performing a cholecystectomy on a 68-year-old female patient 6,230 km away in Strasbourg , France .
It was named Operation Lindbergh. after Charles Lindbergh " s pioneering transatlantic flight from New York to Paris .
Sinai Hospital Mt in Toronto , Canada , the surgical room speech recognition in order to control a variety of equipment at the surgical site , including the lighting in the operating room , the position of the operating table and the surgical tools themselves .
Carlo Pappone , an Italy surgeon , has developed a software program that uses data collected from several surgeons and thousands of operations to perform the surgery without human intervention .
For example , the k-nearest neighbors algorithm ( k-NN ) approach
This approach has its roots in information retrieval and information filtering research .
Popular approaches of opinion-based recommender system utilize various techniques including text mining , information retrieval , sentiment analysis ( see also Multimodal sentiment analysis ) and deep learning X.Y. Feng , H. Zhang , Y.J. Ren , P.H. Shang , Y. Zhu , Y.C. Liang , R.C. Guan , D. Xu , ( 2019 ) , " " , 21 ( 5 ) : e12957 .
The commonly used metrics are the mean squared error and root mean squared error , the latter having been used in the Netflix Prize .
The information retrieval metrics such as precision and recall or DCG are useful to assess the quality of a recommendation method .
It is typically used as access control in security systems and can be compared to other biometrics such as fingerprint or eye iris recognition systems .
Pioneers of automated face recognition include Woody Bledsoe , Helen Chan Wolf , and Charles Bisson .
Low-resolution images of faces can be enhanced using face hallucination .
The first involves feature extraction and selection and the second is the classification of objects .
Popular recognition algorithms include principal component analysis using eigenface s , linear discriminant analysis , Elastic matching using the Fisherface algorithm , the hidden Markov model , the multilinear subspace learning using tensor representation , and the neuronal motivated dynamic link matching .
This approach utilized artificial intelligence and machine learning to allow researchers to visibly compare conventional and thermal facial imagery .
DeepFace is a deep learning facial recognition system created by a research group at Facebook .
It employs a nine-layer neural net with over 120 million connection weights , and was Machine learning on four million images uploaded by Facebook users .
| Apple Apple Inc introduced Face ID on the flagship iPhone X as a biometric authentication successor to the Touch ID , a fingerprint based system .
Police forces in the United Kingdom have been trialling live facial recognition technology at public events since 2015 .
However , a recent report and investigation by Big Brother Watch found that these systems were up to 98 % inaccurate .
The FBI has also instituted its Next Generation Identification program to include face recognition , as well as more traditional biometrics like fingerprints and iris scans , which can pull from both criminal and civil databases .
As of late 2017 , China has deployed facial recognition and artificial intelligence technology in Xinjiang .
Like China , but a year earlier , The Netherlands has deployed facial recognition and artificial intelligence technology since 2016 .
In 2018 , a report by the civil liberties and rights campaigning organisation Big Brother Watch revealed that two United Kingdom police forces , South Wales Police and the Metropolitan Police , were using live facial recognition at public events and in public spaces , in September 2019 , South Wales Police use of facial recognition was ruled lawful .
Civil rights right organizations and privacy campaigners such as the Electronic Frontier Foundation ,
In January 2020 , the European Union suggested , but then quickly scrapped , a proposed moratorium on facial recognition in public spaces .
Facial recognition systems have been used for emotion recognition
She studied the effects of damage to the medial temporal lobe on memory and systematically described the deficits in the most famous patient in cognitive neuroscience , Henry Molaison , formerly known as patient H.M. Though he was not able to remember new events he was able to learn new motor skills .
Milner has received numerous awards for her contributions to neuroscience and psychology including memberships in the Royal Society of London , the Royal Society of Canada and the National Academy of Sciences .
A more sophisticated spell checker will make use of a language model to consider the context in which a word occurs .
Although the size of the word-processing market in a country like Iceland might not have justified the investment of implementing a spell checker , companies like WordPerfect nonetheless strove to localize their software for as many national markets as possible as part of their global marketing strategy .
Apriori uses breadth-first search and a Hash tree structure to count candidate item sets efficiently .
In digital signal processing and information theory , the normalized sinc function is commonly defined for by
Last.fm is a music website founded in the United Kingdom in 2002 .
Using a music recommender system called " Audioscrobbler , " Last.fm builds a detailed profile of each user 's musical taste by recording details of the track s the user listens to , either from Internet radio stations , or the user 's computer or many portable music devices .
Audioscrobbler began as a computer science project of Richard Jones when he attended the University of Southampton School of Electronics and Computer Science in the United Kingdom , Jones developed the first plugins , and then opened an API to the community , after which many music players on different operating system platforms were supported .
Last.fm was founded in 2002 by Felix Miller , Martin Stiksel , Michael Breidenbruecker and Thomas Willomitzer , all of them from Germany or Austria , as an internet radio station and music community site , using similar music profiles to generate dynamic playlists .
The site name takes advantage of a domain hack using .fm , the top level domain of Federated States of Micronesia , popular with FM radio related sites .
A second round was led by Stefan Glaenzer ( joined by Joi Ito and Reid Hoffman ) , who bought into Michael Breidenbruecker ' s shares as well .
User submitted content is licensed for use under the Creative Commons Attribution Share-Alike License and GNU Free Documentation License .
The Robotics Institute ( RI ) is a division of the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania , United States .
Established in 1979 by Raj Reddy , In 1988 , CMU became the first university in the world offering a Ph.D. in Robotics .
Thanks to modern medicine humans live biblical timespans surrounded by various artificial intelligence helper applications and robot s ( cybershells ) , sensory experience broadcast s ( future TV ) and cyberspace telepresence .
The individual then becomes a " ghost " , an infomorph very easily confused with " sapient artificial intelligence .
First , humanity ( specifically China , followed by the United States and others ) colonized Mars in a fashion resembling that outlined in the Mars Direct project .
Kismet is a robot head made in the late 1990s at Massachusetts Institute of Technology by Dr. Cynthia Breazeal as an experiment in affective computing ; a machine that can recognize and simulate emotion s .
The classes of affective intent were then modeled as a gaussian mixture model and trained with these samples using the expectation-maximization algorithm .
A reliable face-detection approach based on the genetic algorithm and the eigen-face
Face detection is used in biometrics , often as a part of ( or together with ) a facial recognition system .
It gave birth to the TAUM-73 and TAUM-METEO machine translation prototypes , using the Q-Systems programming language created by Alain Colmerauer , which were among the first attempts to perform automatic translation through linguistic analysis .
There are two general approaches to automatic summarization : Information extraction and abstraction .
Such transformation , however , is computationally much more challenging than extraction , involving both natural language processing and often a deep understanding of the domain of the original text in cases where the original document relates to a special field of knowledge .
Sometimes one might be interested in generating a summary from a single source document , while others can use multiple source documents ( for example , a cluster analysis of articles on the same topic ) .
" Abstraction requires a deep natural language understanding , which makes it difficult for a computer system .
They can enable document browsing by providing a short summary , improve information retrieval ( if documents have keyphrases assigned , a user could search by keyphrase to produce more reliable hits than a full-text search ) , and be employed in generating index entries for a large text corpus .
Some classifiers make a binary classification for a test example , while others assign a probability of being a keyphrase .
Virtually any supervised learning algorithm could be used , such as decision trees , Naive Bayes , and rule induction .
In the case of Turney 's GenEx algorithm , a genetic algorithm is used to learn parameters for a domain-specific keyphrase extraction algorithm .
TextRank is a general purpose graph -based ranking algorithm for natural language processing .
The most common way is using the so-called ROUGE ( Recall-Oriented Understudy for Gisting Evaluation ) measure .
During the DUC 2001 and 2002 evaluation workshops , Netherlands Organisation for Applied Scientific Research developed a sentence extraction system for multi-document summarization in the news domain .
The system was based on a hybrid system using a naive Bayes classifier and statistical language models for modeling salience .
For example , a simple greedy algorithm admits a constant factor guarantee.Nemhauser , George L. , Laurence A. Wolsey , and Marshall L. Fisher .
One of the metrics used in NIST ' s annual Document Understanding Conferences , in which research groups submit their systems for both summarization and translation tasks , is the ROUGE metric ( Recall-Oriented Understudy for Gisting Evaluation , In Advances of Neural Information Processing Systems ( NIPS ) , Montreal , Canada , December - 2014 .
Machine translation can use a method based on dictionary entries , which means that the words will be translated as a dictionary does - word by word , usually without much correlation of meaning between them .
The ACL has a European ( European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics )
The ACL journal , " Computational Linguistics " , is the primary forum for research on computational linguistics and natural language processing .
The company 's main focus was bringing speech recognition solutions to phone systems .
When the number of clusters is fixed to " k " , k-means clustering gives a formal definition as an optimization problem : find the " k " cluster centers and assign the objects to the nearest cluster center , such that the squared distances from the cluster are minimized .
Variations of " k " -means often include such optimizations as choosing the best of multiple runs , but also restricting the centroids to members of the data set ( " k " -medoids ) , choosing median s ( " k " -medians clustering ) , choosing the initial centers less randomly ( " k " -means + + ) or allowing a fuzzy cluster assignment ( fuzzy c-means ) .
Second , it is conceptually close to nearest neighbor classification , and as such is popular in machine learning .
If the objective function " f " is linear and the constrained space is a polytope , the problem is a linear programming problem , which may be solved using well-known linear programming techniques such as the simplex method .
If the objective function is quadratic and the constraints are linear , quadratic programming techniques are used .
Latent semantic analysis ( LSA ) is a technique in natural language processing , in particular distributional semantics , of analyzing relationships between a set of documents and the terms they contain by producing a set of concepts related to the documents and terms .
Synonymy and polysemy are fundamental problems in natural language processing :
The SVD is typically computed using large matrix methods ( for example , Lanczos method s ) but may also be computed incrementally and with greatly reduced resources via a neural network -like approach , which does not require the large , full-rank matrix to be held in memory .
" RBM 500.3 ( 2007 ) : 500. documents are mapped to memory addresses by means of a neural network in such a way that semantically similar documents are located at nearby addresses .
Deep learning essentially builds a graphical model of the word-count vectors obtained from a large set of documents .
LSI helps overcome synonymy by increasing recall , one of the most problematic constraints of Boolean keyword queries and vector space models .
Note that this rank reduction is essentially the same as doing Principal Component Analysis ( PCA ) on the matrix A , except that PCA subtracts off the means .
Due to its cross-domain applications in Information Retrieval , Natural Language Processing ( NLP ) , Cognitive Science and Computational Linguistics , LSA has been implemented to support many different kinds of applications .
Expansion overseas was a major focus in the 1970s , with Komatsu America Corporation being established in February 1970 in the United States .
Ltd. was established in Singapore .
September 1974 saw the founding of Dina Komatsu Nacional S.A. de C.V. , a joint venture with truck maker DINA S.A. in Mexico .
April 1975 was the founding Komatsu do Brasil Ltda. in Brazil .
" in Australia was established in Feb. 1979 .
In the 1980s , Komatsu and International Harvester of the United States had a joint venture to produce compact tractors called KIMCO .
In 1982 , PT Komatsu Indonesia was founded and production began in 1983 in Indonesia .
Two divisions in the United States were established for manufacturing in 1985 , Komatsu America Manufacturing Corp. and Komatsu America Industries LLC .
Komatsu Industries Europe GmbH was set up in 1986 in Germany .
FAI of Italy was invested in during 1991 .
In 1993 , two joint ventures were formed with Cummins ; Komatsu Cummins Engine Corporation ( KCEC ) to manufacture Cummins engines in Japan , and the Cummins Komatsu Engine Corporation ( CKEC ) to manufacture Komatsu engines in the United States .
, Ltd. in Vietnam in 1995 ; Komatsu Changlin Construction Machinery Co .
( renamed Komatsu ( Changzhou ) Construction Machinery Corporation in November 2000 ) in Changzhou , China in 1995 ; Komatsu Shantui Construction Machinery Co .
, Ltd. in Thailand ; Komatsu ( Shanghai ) Ltd. in 1996 in Shanghai , China ; Industrial Power Alliance Ltd. in Japan , a joint venture with Cummins , in 1998 ; L & T-Komatsu Limited in India in 1998 ( shares sold in 2013 ) ; and Komatsu Brasil International Ltda. in Brazil in 1998 .
The 2000s saw Komatsu working with The Linde Group of Germany for sales and manufacturing of lift trucks .
In 2004 , Komatsu Forest AB " was established to purchase Sweden ' s Partek Forest AB , formerly Valtra and Valmet , a manufacturer of forest machinery .
Komatsu moved into Russia in 2008 with Komatsu Manufacturing Rus , LLC being founded , and production began in 2010 .
In this 1998 paper , McAleese draws on the work of Sowa John F. Sowa , 1983 .
Judea Pearl ( born September 4 , 1936 ) is an Israeli-American computer scientist and philosopher , best known for championing the probabilistic approach to artificial intelligence and the development of Bayesian networks ( see the article on belief propagation ) .
In 2011 , the Association for Computing Machinery awarded Pearl with the Turing Award , the highest distinction in computer science , " for fundamental contributions to artificial intelligence through the development of a calculus for probabilistic and causal reasoning .
Judea Pearl is the father of journalist Daniel Pearl , who was kidnapped and murdered by terrorists in Pakistan connected with Al-Qaeda and the International Islamic Front in 2002 for his American and Jewish heritage.ref name = " Time " { { cite journal
Judea Pearl was born in Tel Aviv , Mandatory Palestine , in 1936 to Polish Jewish immigrant parents.Inference " .
In addition , , he is a member of the International Advisory Board of NGO Monitor .ref name = " NGO " { { cite web
In 2002 , his son , Daniel Pearl , a journalist working for the " Wall Street Journal " was kidnapped and murdered in Pakistan , leading Judea and the other members of the family and friends to create the Daniel Pearl Foundation .
Judea Pearl was one of the pioneers of Bayesian networks and the probabilistic approach to artificial intelligence , and one of the first to mathematize causal modeling in the empirical sciences .
He is interested in the philosophy of science , knowledge representation , nonstandard logics , and learning .
Jabberwacky is a chatterbot created by British programmer Rollo Carpenter .
" It is an early attempt at creating an artificial intelligence through Human-computer interaction .
Cleverbot is the evolved version of the older Jabberwacky chatterbot , or chatbot , originally launched in 1997 on the web .
In electronic instrumentation and signal processing , a time to digital converter ( abbreviated TDC ) is a device for recognizing events and providing a digital representation of the time they occurred .
In the 1980s , the US dollar exchange rate appreciated , lowering the world price of tradable goods below the cost of production in many ( previously successful ) United States manufacturers .
Soar embodies multiple hypotheses about the computational structures underlying Artificial general intelligence , many of which are shared with other cognitive architectures , including ACT-R , which was created by John R. Anderson , and LIDA , which was created by Stan Franklin .
Soar supports reinforcement learning , which tunes the values of rules that create numeric preferences for evaluating operators , based on reward .
NL-Soar was a natural language understanding system developed in Soar by Jill Fain Lehman , Rick Lewis , Nancy Green , Deryle Lonsdale and Greg Nelson .
One of the important outgrowths of the RWA-Soar project was the development of STEAM by Milind Tambe ,
It was an integrated cognitive model that incorporated many different complex cognitive capabilities including natural language processing , attention and visual search , and problem solving in a broad agent model .
Virtual humans have integrated capabilities of perception , natural language understanding , emotions , body control , and action , among others .
In philosophy and Artificial intelligence ( especially , knowledge-based systems ) , the qualification problem is concerned with the impossibility of listing " all " the precondition s required for a real-world action to have its intended effect , in which it is impossible to enumerate all the circumstances that may prevent a rowboat from performing its ordinary function :
The Robot Hall of Fame is an American hall of fame that recognizes notable robot s in various scientific fields and general society , as well as achievements in robotics technology .
An overview of calibration methods for binary classification and multiclass classification classification tasks is given by Gebel ( 2009 )
Machine learning and application of iterative techniques are becoming more common in CBIR .
Once performed by hand , POS tagging is now done in the context of computational linguistics , using algorithms which associate discrete terms , as well as hidden parts of speech , by a set of descriptive tags .
For some time , part-of-speech tagging was considered an inseparable part of natural language processing , because there are certain cases where the correct part of speech cannot be decided without understanding the semantics or even the pragmatics of the context .
In the mid-1980s , researchers in Europe began to use hidden Markov model s ( HMMs ) to disambiguate parts of speech , when working to tag the Lancaster-Oslo-Bergen Corpus of British English .
Hidden Markov model and Markov model taggers can both be implemented using the Viterbi algorithm .
Many machine learning methods have also been applied to the problem of POS tagging .
Methods such as Support vector machine , maximum entropy classifier , perceptron , and nearest-neighbor have all been tried , and most can achieve accuracy above 95 % .
The vector signal analyzer spectrum analysis process typically has a down-convert & digitizing stage and a digital signal processing & display stage .
Several measurements are made and displayed using these signal components and various digital signal processing processes , such as the ones below .
Like many inference problems , the solutions to inferring the two variables together can be found , to a local optimum solution , by alternating updates of the two beliefs in a form of EM algorithm .
The self-driving STANLEY and JUNIOR cars , led by Sebastian Thrun , won the DARPA Grand Challenge and came second in the DARPA Urban Challenge in the 2000s , and included SLAM systems , bringing SLAM to worldwide attention .
For example , in the United States , sell-side or Wall Street research analysts must register with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ( FINRA ) .
Other sectors may similarly require advanced technical knowledge ; e.g. in pharmacy / life sciences for " bio-tech " , in electronic engineering for areas in " high tech .
( In Commonwealth of Nations , the CA qualification often remains sufficient to access ( junior ) analyst roles .
The first appearance of the Terminator was as the eponymous antagonist in " The Terminator " , a 1984 film directed and co-written by James Cameron .
Roland Kickinger was cast as the principal actor but CGI was used to superimpose Schwarzenegger 's face from the original 1984 film .
The Model 101 is sent back in time to terminate a single target , Sarah Connor ( Linda Hamilton ) , in 1984 , to prevent the birth of her son , John , the future leader of the Human Resistance .
A Model 101 is captured by the resistance , reprogrammed by the future John Connor ( Michael Edwards ) , and sent back to the 1990s to protect young John ( Edward Furlong ) from a T-1000 ( Robert Patrick ) dispatched to kill him .
In the third film , a T-101 Terminator portrayed by Schwarzenegger is reprogrammed to protect John Connor ( Nick Stahl ) , as well as his future wife Kate Brewster ( Claire Danes ) , from a T-X ( Kristanna Loken ) .
As the very first T-800 activated in this timeline , it engages John Connor ( Christian Bale ) in battle during John 's attempt to rescue Kyle Reese ( Anton Yelchin ) from the Skynet base in San Francisco .
As John begins planting hydrogen fuel cells , cyborg prototype Marcus Wright ( Sam Worthington ) arrives to stall the T-800 , able to match its strength due to his own metal endoskeleton , but due to Marcus harbouring biological organs , specifically his human heart , the T-800 is able to incapacitate him long enough to stab John through the abdomen from behind , wounding him .
In the film , a T-800 was reprogrammed by an unknown party from a point in time further in the future , and sent to 1973 to protect nine-year-old Sarah Connor ( Emilia Clarke ) from a T-1000 sent to kill her and her parents .
After Kyle Reese 's ( Jai Courtney ) arrival in 1984 , the trio defeat the T-1000 ( Lee Byung-hun ) together .
Later , in 2017 , they battle John Connor ( Jason Clarke ) , who has been transformed into a T-3000 tasked to ensure Skynet 's rise .
With both the original T-800 's and the T-1000 's remains destroyed in 1984 and the older Terminator 's existence concealed , Cyberdyne Systems lacks the Skynet technology to work with for decades until John Connor is under Miles Dyson 's ( Courtney B. Vance ) employ and assists his son Danny Dyson ( Dayo Okeniyi ) in the development of the company 's Genisys technology .
It can natural language processing , copy the voices of others , optical character recognition , and even genuinely sweat , smell , and bleed .
The most notable science fiction characteristics are that of an expert system featuring Artificial general intelligence functionality combined with machine learning , and the system can interpret arbitrary non-formalized tasks .
The Terminator CPU is an artificial neural network with machine learning .
The expression was coined by Richard E. Bellman when considering problems in dynamic programming .
Cursed phenomena occur in domains such as numerical analysis , sampling , combinatorics , machine learning , data mining and database s .
In machine learning problems that involve learning a " state-of-nature " from a finite number of data samples in a high-dimensional feature space with each feature having a range of possible values , typically an enormous amount of training data is required to ensure that there are several samples with each combination of values .
The effect complicates nearest neighbor search in high dimensional space .
This phenomenon can have a considerable impact on various techniques for classification ( including the " k " -NN classifier ) , semi-supervised learning , and Cluster analysis , { { Cite journal
In many countries in Europe , a series of short 3D films , produced in the Netherlands , were shown on television .
The PUMA ( " Programmable Universal Machine for Assembly " , or " Programmable Universal Manipulation Arm " ) is an industrial robot robotic arm developed by Victor Scheinman at pioneering robot company Unimation .
It joins a collection of historically important robots that includes an early Unimate and the Odetics Odex 1 .
The Universal Decimal Classification scheme was created at the end of the nineteenth century by Belgian bibliographers Paul Otlet and Henri la Fontaine .
Web mining is the application of data mining techniques to discover patterns from the World Wide Web .
Web usage mining is the application of data mining techniques to discover interesting usage patterns from Web data in order to understand and better serve the needs of Web-based application s .
These factors have prompted researchers to develop more intelligent tools for information retrieval , such as intelligent web agent s , as well as to extend database and data mining techniques to provide a higher level of organization for semi-structured data available on the web .
The agent-based approach to web mining involves the development of sophisticated artificial intelligence s that can act autonomously or semi-autonomously on behalf of a particular user , to discover and organize web-based information .
As feature set , information gain , cross entropy , mutual information , and odds ratio are usually used .
Boris Katz , ( born October 5 , 1947 , Chișinău , Moldavian SSR , Soviet Union , ( now Chișinău , Moldova ) ) is a principal American research scientist ( computer scientist ) at the MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge and head of the Laboratory 's InfoLab Group .
He was able to get out of the Soviet Union with the help of U.S. Senator Ted Kennedy , before the end of the cold war .
He graduated from Moscow State University and in November 1978 , he left for the United States thanks to the personal intervention of Senator Edward M. Kennedy ..
Brothers - Victor Gershevich Katz , American mathematician , professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology ; Mikhail Gershevich Katz , Israel i mathematician , graduate of Harvard and Columbia ( Ph.D. , 1984 ) universities , professor at Bar-Ilan University , author of the monograph " Systolic Geometry and Topology " ( Mathematical Surveys and Monographs , vol .
Daughter - Luba Katz , a bioinformatics scientist ( her husband is Alan Jasanoff , a neuroimaging scientist , a professor at MIT , the son of Harvard University professors Jay Jasanoff and Sheila Jasanoff Его сестра Майя - историк , профессор Йельского университета .
Artificial life is an interdisciplinary line of research ( largely between computer science and biology , but with applications in wide areas including economics and archeology ) with the aim to create living or lifelike artificial systems , either in the form of computer programs or in the form of robots .
In 1993 , Anderson met with Christian Lebiere , a researcher in connectionist models mostly famous for developing with Scott Fahlman the Cascade Correlation learning algorithm .
A hidden Markov model describes the joint probability of a collection of " hidden " and observed discrete random variables .
The Baum-Welch algorithm uses the well known EM algorithm to find the maximum likelihood estimate of the parameters of a hidden Markov model given a set of observed feature vectors .
In computer vision , document layout analysis is the process of identifying and categorizing the regions of interest in the scanned image of a text document .
It is typically performed before a document image is sent to an Optical character recognition engine , but it can be used also to detect duplicate copies of the same document in large archives , or to index documents by their structure or pictorial content .
Document layout is formally defined in the international standard International Organization for Standardization 8613-1 : 1989 .
It is a common assumption in both document layout analysis algorithms and optical character recognition algorithms that the characters in the document image are oriented so that text lines are horizontal .
It was hosted by Brett Erlich and Ellen Fox and written by Mark Ganek .
Rotten Tomatoes is a top 1000 site , placing around # 400 globally and top 150 for the US only , according to website ranker Alexa .
Localized versions of the site available in the United Kingdom , India , and Australia were discontinued following the acquisition of Rotten Tomatoes by Fandango .
The Mexico version of the site remains active .
In January 2010 , on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the New York Film Critics Circle , its chairman Armond White cited Rotten Tomatoes in particular and film review aggregator s in general as examples of how " the Internet takes revenge on individual expression .
Director and producer Brett Ratner has criticized the website for " reducing hundreds of reviews culled from print and online sources into a popularized aggregate score , " and feels it is the " worst thing that we have in today 's movie culture .
American director Martin Scorsese wrote a column in " The Hollywood Reporter " criticizing both Rotten Tomatoes and CinemaScore for promoting the idea that films like " Mother ! " had to be " instantly liked " to be successful .
While promoting the film " Suffragette " ( which has a " fresh " rating )
He is professor of philosophy , Seth Merrin Chair in the Humanities and , with Daniel Dennett , co-director of the Center for Cognitive Studies at Tufts University .
During the 2009 spring semester , he was an external professor at the Santa Fe Institute .
" The Iron Giant " is a 1999 American animated science fiction action film produced by Warner Bros. Feature Animation and directed by Brad Bird in his directorial debut .
The film stars the voices of Vin Diesel ( voicing the titular character ) , Eli Marienthal , Jennifer Aniston , .
Harry Connick Jr , Christopher McDonald and John Mahoney .
During the Cold War , shortly after the Soviet Union launched " Sputnik 1 " in October 1957 , an object from space crashes in the ocean just off the coast of Maine and then enters the forest near the town of Rockwell .
The screw joins many other parts as they converge on the Giant 's head on the Langjökull glacier in Iceland , and the Giant smiles as he begins reassembling himself .
In addition , Ollie Johnston and Frank Thomas voice the train engineers , briefly seen near the start of the film .
In late 1996 , while developing the project on its way through , the studio saw the film as a perfect vehicle for Brad Bird , who at the time was working for Turner Feature Animation developing " Ray Gunn " .
Bird 's original temp score , " a collection of Bernard Herrmann cues from ' 50s and ' 60s sci-fi films , " initially scared Kamen .
In order to build the classification models , the samples belonging to each class need to be analysed using principal component analysis ( PCA ) ; only the significant components are retained .
Samson and Delilah are Biblical
In the field of machine learning and specifically the problem of statistical classification , a confusion matrix , also known as an error matrix , is a specific table layout that allows visualization of the performance of an algorithm , typically a supervised learning one ( in unsupervised learning it is usually called a matching matrix ) .
Dep. of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science of MIT ( 1978 ) is a knowledge representation approach to efficient handling of inferred information that is explicitly stored .
A truth maintenance system , or TMS , is a knowledge representation method for representing both beliefs and their dependencies and an algorithm called the " truth maintenance algorithm " that manipulates and maintains the dependencies .
In signal processing , time-frequency analysis comprises those techniques that study a signal in both the time and frequency domains " simultaneously , " using various time-frequency representation s .
In signal processing , time-frequency analysisP .
The term optical flow is also used by roboticists , encompassing related techniques from image processing and control of navigation including motion detection , Image segmentation , time-to-contact information , focus of expansion calculations , luminance , motion compensated encoding , and stereo disparity measurement .
Optical flow was used by robotics researchers in many areas such as : object detection and tracking , image dominant
Optical flow sensors are also being used in robotics applications , primarily where there is a need to measure visual motion or relative motion between the robot and other objects in the vicinity of the robot .
In statistics , a mixture model is a probabilistic model for representing the presence of subpopulation s within an overall population , without requiring that an observed data set should identify the sub-population to which an individual observation belongs .
Some ways of implementing mixture models involve steps that attribute postulated sub-population-identities to individual observations ( or weights towards such sub-populations ) , in which case these can be regarded as types of unsupervised learning or cluster analysis procedures .
with new parameters math \ tilde { \ phi _ i } , \ boldsymbol { \ tilde { \ mu _ i } } / math and math \ boldsymbol { \ tilde { \ Sigma _ i } } / math that are updated using the EM algorithm .
Notably , any distribution of points around a cluster ( see K-means clustering ) may be accurately given enough Gaussian components , but scarcely over " K " = 20 components are needed to accurately model a given image distribution or cluster of data .
In image processing and computer vision , traditional image segmentation models often assign to one pixel only one exclusive pattern .
Probabilistic mixture models such as Gaussian mixture model s ( GMM ) are used to resolve point set registration problems in image processing and computer vision fields .
This is a particular way of implementing maximum likelihood estimation for this problem .
The resulting model is termed a hidden Markov model and is one of the most common sequential hierarchical models .
Subsequent works focused on addressing these problems , but it was not until the advent of the modern computer and the popularisation of Maximum Likelihood ( MLE ) parameterisation techniques that research really took off .
These readers typically use optical and / or computer vision techniques to evaluate the contents of the microtiter plate wells .
Léon Gaumont introduced Ives ' pictures in France and encouraged Eugène Estanave to work on the technique .
In the 1967 Bhutan introduced lenticular 3D postage stamps as one of the many unusual stamp designs of the Bhutan Stamp Agency initiated by American businessman Burt Kerr Todd .
The minisheet featured four fully lenticular stamps based on Gerry Anderson and Sylvia Anderson ' s " Thunderbirds " TV series .
One formalism which has received considerable attention in recent years is Mark Steedman and Szabolcsi ' s combinatory categorial grammar which builds on combinatory logic invented by Moses Schönfinkel and Haskell Curry .
It was founded in Japan in 1976 .
IAI is the world 's largest manufacturer of cartesian coordinate robot s and is an established leader in low cost , high performance SCARA robot s .
Default logic is a non-monotonic logic proposed by Raymond Reiter to formalize reasoning with default assumptions .
The LMA interpolates between the Gauss-Newton algorithm ( GNA ) and the method of gradient descent .
Theoretical arguments exist showing why some of these choices guarantee local convergence of the algorithm ; however , these choices can make the global convergence of the algorithm suffer from the undesirable properties of gradient descent , in particular , very slow convergence close to the optimum .
An interactive genetic algorithm ( IGA ) is defined as a genetic algorithm that uses human evaluation .
Gerd Gigerenzer ( born September 3 , 1947 , Wallersdorf , Germany ) is a Germany psychologist who has studied the use of bounded rationality and heuristic s in decision making .
Gigerenzer is director emeritus of the Center for Adaptive Behavior and Cognition ( ABC ) at the Max Planck Institute for Human Development and director of the Harding Center for Risk Literacy , Germany .
In 1984 he moved to the University of Konstanz and in 1990 to the University of Salzburg .
He is also Batten Fellow at the Darden Business School , University of Virginia , Fellow of the Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Sciences and the German Academy of Sciences Leopoldina , and Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Philosophical Society .
In image processing , hqx ( " high quality scale " ) is one of the pixel art scaling algorithms developed by Maxim Stepin , used in emulator s such as Nestopia , FCEUX , higan , Snes9x , ZSNES and many more .
The ROC curve is created by plotting the true positive rate ( TPR ) against the false positive rate ( FPR ) at various threshold settings .
The true-positive rate is also known as sensitivity , recall or " probability of detection " math to the discrimination threshold ) of the detection probability in the y-axis versus the cumulative distribution function of the false-alarm probability on the x-axis .
ROC analysis since then has been used in medicine , radiology , biometrics , forecasting of natural hazard s , and other areas for many decades and is increasingly used in machine learning and data mining research .
Consider a two-class prediction problem ( binary classification ) , in which the outcomes are labeled either as positive ( " p " ) or negative ( " n " ) .
The four outcomes can be formulated in a 2 × 2 " contingency table " or " confusion matrix " , as follows :
Each prediction result or instance of a confusion matrix represents one point in the ROC space .
The machine learning community most often uses the ROC AUC statistic for model comparison .
ROC curves also proved useful for the evaluation of machine learning techniques .
there are relational classification rule s ( relational classification ) , relational Decision tree learning , and relational association rule s ! -- minor weasel words follow but left as a prompt in case some one can add actual information : , and so on-- .
ROOP is a multiparadigm programming language targeted at Artificial intelligence applications created at the Chengdu University of China .
Multi-task learning ( MTL ) is a subfield of machine learning in which multiple learning tasks are solved at the same time , while exploiting commonalities and differences across tasks .
Large scale machine learning projects such as the deep convolutional neural network GoogLeNet ,
A new study published in Psychological Review the Royal Society cross-disciplinary journal at the interface between the physical and life sciences , sheds new light on how the visual system may represent which features are bound together as part of the same object .
Therefore , this work may represent a significant advancement towards the future development of Artificial General Intelligence and Machine Consciousness , opening up new perspectives on building machines endowed with human-level intelligence .
SmarterChild was a chatbot available on AOL Instant Messenger and Windows Live Messenger ( previously MSN Messenger ) networks .
devices that are driven by algorithms such as computed tomography and Non-negative matrix factorization and non-negative tensor factorization .
In mathematics and signal processing , an analytic signal is a complex-valued function that has no negative frequency components .
In logic , statistical inference , and supervised learning ,
people may call this an example of the closely related semi-supervised learning , since Vapnik 's motivation is quite different .
An example of an algorithm in this category is the Transductive Support Vector Machine ( TSVM ) .
The inductive approach to solving this problem is to use the labeled points to train a supervised learning algorithm , and then have it predict labels for all of the unlabeled points .
Algorithms that seek to predict discrete labels tend to be derived by adding partial supervision to a Cluster analysis algorithm .
Digital image processing is the application of signal processing techniques to the domain of image s & mdash ; two-dimensional signal s such as photographs or video .
Related categories : computer vision and imaging .
DSLReports has been written about or had their reports featured in " CNN " , " USA Today " , " Forbes " , " NBC News " , " The Washington Post " , " The New York Times " and " Ars Technica " , among others .
It is the phenomenon where random fluctuations , or noise , provide a signal processing benefit in a nonlinear system .
In computer vision , the Marr-Hildreth algorithm is a method of detecting edges in digital image s , that is , continuous curves where there are strong and rapid variations in image brightness .
David Marr and Ellen Hildreth are two of the inventors .
Its origins date back to the beginning of logic programming , but it became prominent as a separate area around 1977 when Hervé Gallaire and Jack Minker organized a workshop on logic and database s ..
Cognex Corporation was founded in 1981 by Robert J. Shillman , a lecturer in human visual perception at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , and two MIT graduate students , Bill Silver and Marilyn Matz .
In 2004 , the company won an intellectual property victory when a federal judge ruled in Cognex 's favor in a patent lawsuit brought against the estate of the inventor Jerome H. Lemelson , who had filed dozens of submarine patent s , some of which purported to cover machine vision processes .
This approach is currently achieved by using Neural network and Deep learning classifiers such as VGG ,
Template matching has various applications and is used in such fields as face recognition ( see facial recognition system ) and medical image processing .
In the fields of computational linguistics and probability , an " n " -gram is a contiguous sequence of " n " items from a given sample of text or speech .
An " n " -gram model is a type of probabilistic language model for predicting the next item in such a sequence in the form of a ( " n " − 1 ) -order Markov model .efficiently .
This idea can be traced to an experiment by Claude Shannon ' s work in information theory .
When used for language model ing , independence assumptions are made so that each word depends only on the last " n " − 1 words .
This Markov model is used as an approximation of the true underlying language .
" n " -gram models are widely used in statistical natural language processing .
In speech recognition , phonemes and sequences of phonemes are modeled using a " n " -gram distribution .
In practice , " n " -gram models have been shown to be extremely effective in modeling language data , which is a core component in modern statistical natural language processing applications .
Most modern applications that rely on " n " -gram based models , such as machine translation applications , do not rely exclusively on such models ; instead , they typically also incorporate Bayesian inference .
Conventional linguistic theory can be incorporated in these features ( although in practice , it is rare that features specific to generative or other particular theories of grammar are incorporated , as computational linguistics tend to be " agnostic " towards individual theories of grammar ) .
They are encountered in computational linguistics and natural language processing when the input includes words which were not present in a system 's dictionary or database during its preparation .
" n " -grams find use in several areas of computer science , computational linguistics , and applied mathematics .
In the field of computational linguistics , in particular language model ing , skip-grams They provide one way of overcoming the data sparsity problem found with conventional " n " -gram analysis .
Lucy Suchman ' s work on situated action at Xerox Labs
According to Jean Lave and Wenger ( 1991 ) legitimate peripheral participation ( LPP ) provides a framework to describe how individuals ( ' newcomers ' ) become part of a community of learners .
Suchman 's book , " Plans and Situated Actions : The Problem of Human-machine Communication " ( 1987 ) , provided a novel approach to the study of Human-computer interaction .
The development of SAS began in 1966 after North Carolina State University re-hired Anthony James Barr
Text Miner text mining like emails for patterns in Business Intelligence applications .
SAS Social Media Analytics , a tool for social media monitoring , engagement and sentiment analysis , was also released that year .
IrfanView is named after its creator , Irfan Škiljan ! --spelling & no accents per author 's webpage-- , from Jajce , Bosnia and Herzegovina , living in Vienna .
In the same year , Dedre Gentner and Albert Stevens edited a collection of chapters in a book also titled " Mental Models " .
Since then , there has been much discussion and use of the idea in human-computer interaction and usability by researchers including Donald Norman and Steve Krug ( in his book " Don 't Make Me Think " ) .
Walter Kintsch and Teun A. van Dijk , using the term " situation model " ( in their book " Strategies of Discourse Comprehension " , 1983 ) , showed the relevance of mental models for the production and comprehension of discourse .
Commonsense reasoning is one of the branches of artificial intelligence ( AI ) that is concerned with simulating the human ability to make presumptions about the type and essence of ordinary situations they encounter every day .
For instance , WordNet is a resource including a taxonomy , whose elements are meanings of English words .
To integrate that kind of reasoning with concrete purposes , such as natural language understanding , is more challenging , because natural language expressions have context dependent interpretation.Liu , Hugo , and Push Singh .
The problem of attaining human-level competency at " commonsense knowledge " tasks is considered to probably be " AI complete " ( that is , solving it would require the ability to synthesize a artificial general intelligence ) .Yampolskiy , Roman V. " AI-Complete , AI-Hard , or AI-Easy-Classification of Problems in AI .
Two other popular techniques for extracting commonsense knowledge from Web documents involve Web mining and Crowd sourcing .
Cosine similarity is a commonly used similarity measure for real-valued vectors , used in ( among other fields ) information retrieval to score the similarity of documents in the vector space model .
In machine learning , common kernel functions such as the RBF kernel can be viewed as similarity functions .
iRobot was founded in 1990 by Rodney Brooks , Colin Angle , and Helen Greiner after working in MIT ' s Artificial Intelligence Lab .
According to the document sent to the United Nations , in the same way that open source has in recent years accelerated the development of computer systems , a similar approach should benefit the society at large and accelerate nanorobotics development .
In learned iterative reconstruction , the updating algorithm is learned from training data using techniques from machine learning such as convolutional neural networks , while still incorporating the image formation model .
In Cryo Electron Tomography , where the limited number of projections are acquired due to the hardware limitations and to avoid the biological specimen damage , it can be used along with compressive sensing techniques or regularization functions ( e.g. Huber loss ) to improve the reconstruction for better interpretation .
For the case of a moving camera , models based on optical flow are used to distinguish between apparent background motion caused by the camera movement and that of independent objects moving in the scene.Bewley , A. , Guizilini , V. , Ramos , F. , & Upcroft , B. ( 2014 ) .
This is true not only of human translation , but also in cases where human translators use computer-assisted translation , such as translation memories , and also when translations are performed by machine translation systems .
One final perception on the idea of " unit " came from linguist Eugene Nida .
In signal processing , the chirplet transform is an inner product of an input signal with a family of analysis primitives called chirplets.S. Mann and S. Haykin , " , " " Proc .
There are several types of granularity that are often encountered in data mining and machine learning , and we review them below :
An example of this would be a variable such as " outside temperature " ( mathtemp / math ) , which in a given application might be recorded to several decimal places of precision ( depending on the sensing apparatus ) .
A number of classical methods , such as principal component analysis , multidimensional scaling , factor analysis , and structural equation modeling , and their relatives , fall under the genus of " variable transformation .
Functionally , it is thought that basic level categories are a decomposition of the world into maximally Information Theory categories .
In signal processing , a comb filter is a filter implemented by adding a delayed version of a signal processing to itself , causing constructive and destructive interference .
It was originally designed for particle physics data analysis and contains several features specific to this field , but it is also used in other applications such as astronomy and data mining .
The inclusion of a C + + interpreter ( CINT until version 5.34 , Cling from version 6.00 ) makes this package very versatile as it can be used in interactive , scripted and compiled modes in a manner similar to commercial products like MATLAB .
It is theoretically possible to use any set of symbolic formulations of a control law ( sometimes called a policy in the machine learning community ) as the space of possible candidate controllers .
In particular , other forms of reinforcement learning can be used for learning robot controllers .
In 1992 and 1993 three research groups , one surrounding Floreano and Mondada at the EPFL in Lausanne and a second involving Cliff , Inman Harvey , and Phil Husbands from COGS at the University of Sussex and a third from the University of Southern California involved M. Anthony Lewis and Andrew H Fagg reported promising results from experiments on artificial evolution of autonomous robots .
Many of the commonly used machine learning algorithms require a set of training examples consisting of both a hypothetical input and a desired answer .
An alternative to the use of evolutionary computation in robot learning is the use of other forms of reinforcement learning , such as q-learning , to learn the fitness of any particular action , and then use predicted fitness values indirectly to create a controller .
Statistical learning theory is a framework for machine learning
Statistical learning theory has led to successful applications in fields such as computer vision , speech recognition , and bioinformatics .
Learning falls into many categories , including supervised learning , unsupervised learning , online learning , and reinforcement learning .
In facial recognition system , for instance , a picture of a person 's face would be the input , and the output label would be that person 's name .
A common example would be restricting math \ mathcal { H } / math to linear functions : this can be seen as a reduction to the standard problem of linear regression .
District and circuit court s ruled in favor of the CIO , which brought the suit against the mayor for these actions and which was represented by Morris L. Ernst , Spaulding Frazer , Lee Pressman and Benjamin Kaplan .
In the 1970s , computer scientist Marvin Minsky was trying to develop machines that would have human-like abilities .
subject areas in computer graphics , computer vision , and applied
taxonomy are image processing ( see also digital image processing )
Other techniques are related to the field of computational imaging , such as digital holography , computer vision and inverse problems such as tomography .
Bigrams are used in most successful language model s for speech recognition .
Grammar checkers are most often implemented as a feature of a larger program , such as a word processor , but are also available as a stand-alone application that can be activated from within programs that work with editable text .
The implementation of a grammar checker makes use of natural language processing .
The forward algorithm , in the context of a hidden Markov model ( HMM ) , is used to calculate a ' belief state ' : the probability of a state at a certain time , given the history of evidence .
Instead , the forward algorithm takes advantage of the conditional independence rules of the hidden Markov model ( HMM ) to perform the calculation recursively .
In the United States , products are manufactured and sold by Mitsubishi Electric United States headquartered in Cypress , California .
BEST ( " Boosting Engineering , Science , and Technology " ) is a national six-week robotics competition in the United States held each fall , designed to help interest middle school and high school students in possible engineering careers .
John Searle , who has often said that no great work of philosophy contains many footnotes and that philosophical quality varies inversely with the number of bibliographical references , considers the absence of footnotes in " The Concept of Mind " a sign of its quality .
The Netherlands -based organisation alleged that Epson customers were unfairly charged for ink they could never use .
The RANSAC algorithm is often used in computer vision , e.g. , to simultaneously solve the correspondence problem and estimate the fundamental matrix related to a pair of stereo cameras .
Since 1981 RANSAC has become a fundamental tool in the computer vision and image processing community .
In 2006 , for the 25th anniversary of the algorithm , a workshop was organized at the International Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition ( CVPR ) to summarize the most recent contributions and variations to the original algorithm , mostly meant to improve the speed of the algorithm , the robustness and accuracy of the estimated solution and to decrease the dependency from user defined constants .
A Gaussian noise assumption is then made in data space so that the model becomes a constrained Gaussian mixture model .
Within 20 minutes , a facial recognition system identifies personal information including family name , ID number and address which are displayed in the street on an advertising screen .
In 2010 , it was revealed that the municipality of Segrate , Italy , two nearby traffic lights had been synchronized such that drivers were coerced to either break the speed limit or pass during the red light .
In computer programming , gene expression programming ( GEP ) is an evolutionary algorithm that creates computer programs or models .
Gene expression programming belongs to the family of evolutionary algorithm s and is closely related to genetic algorithms and genetic programming .
Fitness functions and selection environments ( called training datasets in machine learning ) are the two facets of fitness and are therefore intricately connected .
The first type of problem goes by the name of regression ; the second is known as classification , with logistic regression as a special case where , besides the crisp classifications like " Yes " or " No , " a probability is also attached to each outcome ; and the last one is related to Boolean algebra and logic synthesis .
Such functions include the mean squared error , root mean squared error , mean absolute error , relative squared error , root relative squared error , relative absolute error , and others .
The design of fitness functions for classification and logistic regression takes advantage of three different characteristics of classification models .
The counts of TP , TN , FP , and FN are usually kept on a table known as the confusion matrix .
Some popular fitness functions based on the confusion matrix include sensitivity / specificity , recall / precision , F-measure , Jaccard similarity , Matthews correlation coefficient , and cost / gain matrix which combines the costs and gains assigned to the 4 different types of classifications .
For instance , one can combine some measure based on the confusion matrix with the mean squared error evaluated between the raw model outputs and the actual values .
Or combine the F-measure with the R-square evaluated for the raw model output and the target ; or the cost / gain matrix with the correlation coefficient , and so on .
More exotic fitness functions that explore model granularity include the area under the ROC curve and rank measure .
Also related to this new dimension of classification models , is the idea of assigning probabilities to the model output , which is what is done in logistic regression .
Then it is also possible to use these probabilities and evaluate the mean squared error ( or some other similar measure ) between the probabilities and the actual values , then combine this with the confusion matrix to create very efficient fitness functions for logistic regression .
Popular examples of fitness functions based on the probabilities include maximum likelihood estimation and hinge loss .
So , GEP-nets can be used not only in Boolean problems but also in logistic regression , classification , and regression .
It is covered by American National Standards Institute / NISO standard Z39.50 , and International Organization for Standardization standard 23950 .
Block is Past President of the Society for Philosophy and Psychology and was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences in 2004 .
Two-dimensional matched filters are commonly used in image processing , e.g. , to improve SNR for X-ray .
" Psychological Review " was eventually sold by Warren to the American Psychological Association , which has owned it ever since .
In signal processing , specifically control theory , bounded-input , bounded-output ( BIBO ) output will be bounded for every input to the system that is bounded .
The sociologist Eileen Barker reviewed the book for " The British Journal of Sociology " .
The concept is similar to the signal to noise ratio used in the sciences and confusion matrix used in artificial intelligence .
A fully self-aware artificial intelligence , heref group = noteAs primary and secondary sources cited in this article have referred to Alpha 5 by the masculine pronoun , the character appears to possess masculine programming. is the robotic assistant of the Power Rangers , and resides in their base of operations , the Command Center along their mentor Zordon .
Richard Steven Horvitz voiced Alpha 5 for the character 's appearances in most Power Ranger franchise media , starting from " Mighty Morphin Power Rangers " television series. until " Power Rangers Turbo " , which marked the character 's final appearance in the " Power Rangers " TV series .
In the 2017 reboot film , Alpha 5 is a CGI character voiced by Bill Hader .
The two later briefly returned in " Passing of the Torch " , in which Tommy , Adam , Kat , and Tanya retired from their Ranger duties .
In the 2017 reboot film , Alpha 5 is a CGI character portrayed by Bill Hader .
The Rangers are away at the North Pole assisting Santa Claus in preparation for the Christmas holidays , while Alpha remains with Zordon for Christmas at the Command Center .
An optimal value for math \ alpha / math can be found by using a line search algorithm , that is , the magnitude of math \ alpha / math is determined by finding the value that minimizes " S " , usually using a line search in the interval math0 \ alpha 1 / math or a backtracking line search such as Armijo-line search .
In such cases , the step calculation itself will typically need to be done with an approximate iterative method appropriate for large and sparse problems , such as the conjugate gradient method .
Another method for solving minimization problems using only first derivatives is gradient descent .
A Boltzmann machine ( also called stochastic Hopfield network with hidden units ) is a type of stochastic recurrent neural network .
They were one of the first neural networks capable of learning Knowledge representation , and are able to represent and ( given sufficient time ) solve combinatoric problems .
They were invented in 1985 by Geoffrey Hinton , then a Professor at Carnegie Mellon University , and Terry Sejnowski , then a Professor at Johns Hopkins University .
A gradient descent algorithm over mathG / math , changes a given weight , mathw _ { ij } / math by subtracting the partial derivative of mathG / math with respect to the weight .
This is more biologically realistic than the information needed by a connection in many other neural network training algorithms , such as backpropagation .
The training of a Boltzmann machine does not use the EM algorithm , which is heavily used in machine learning .
This method of stacking RBMs makes it possible to train many layers of hidden units efficiently and is one of the most common deep learning strategies .
Like DBNs , DBMs can learn complex and abstract internal representations of the input in tasks such as Object recognition or speech recognition , using limited , labeled data to fine-tune the representations built using a large set of unlabeled sensory input data .
Ising models became considered to be a special case of Markov random field s , which find widespread application in linguistics , robotics , computer vision and artificial intelligence .
Another example of complementary properties is that of having a precisely observed position or momentum .
His research in neural network s and computational neuroscience has been pioneering .
Sejnowski is also Professor of Biological Sciences and adjunct professor in the departments of neuroscience s , psychology , cognitive science , computer Science and Computer engineering at the University of California , San Diego , where he is co-director of the Institute for Neural Computation .
MIT Press Sejnowski received his B.S. in physics in 1968 from the Case Western Reserve University , M.A. in physics from Princeton University with John Archibald Wheeler , and a PhD in physics from Princeton University in 1978 with John Hopfield .
From 1978-1979 Sejnowski was a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Biology at Princeton University with Alan Gelperin and from 1979-1981 he was a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Neurobiology at Harvard Medical School with Stephen Kuffler .
He was an Investigator at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute from 1991 to 2018 .
He became a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers in 2000 and received their Neural Network Pioneer Award in 2002 .
He is a Senior Fellow of the Design Futures Council .Design Futures Council Senior Fellows
His research in neural network s and computational neuroscience has been pioneering .
In the early 1980s , particularly following work by John Hopfield , computer simulations of neural networks became widespread .
Early applications , particularly by Sejnowski and Geoffrey Hinton , demonstrated that simple neural networks could be made to learn tasks of at least some sophistication .
He is also the President of the Neural Information Processing Systems Foundation , a non-profit organization that oversees the annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems Conference .
The Conference and Workshop on Neural Information Processing Systems ( abbreviated as NeurIPS and formerly NIPS ) is a machine learning and computational neuroscience conference held every December .
Since then , the biological and artificial systems research streams have diverged , and recent NeurIPS proceedings have been dominated by papers on machine learning , artificial intelligence and statistics .
Besides machine learning and neuroscience , other fields represented at NeurIPS include cognitive science , psychology , computer vision , statistical linguistics , and information theory .
Both statistical estimation and machine learning consider the problem of minimizing an objective function that has the form of a sum :
When used to minimize the above function , a standard ( or " batch " ) gradient descent method would perform the following iterations :
Stochastic gradient descent is a popular algorithm for training a wide range of models in machine learning , including ( linear ) support vector machine s , logistic regression ( see , e.g. , Vowpal Wabbit ) and graphical model s.Jenny Rose Finkel , Alex Kleeman , Christopher D. Manning ( 2008 ) .
It is a stochastic form of the proximal gradient method since the update
Further proposals include the " momentum method " , which appeared in Rumelhart , Geoffrey Hinton and Williams ' seminal paper on backpropagation learning .
The name momentum stems from an analogy to momentum in physics : the weight vector mathw / math , thought of as a particle traveling through parameter space
" AdaGrad " ( for adaptive Gradient descent algorithm ) is a modified stochastic gradient descent algorithm with per-parameter learning rate , first published in 2011. which is the diagonal of the outer product matrix
RMSProp can be seen as a generalization of Rprop and is capable to work with mini-batches as well opposed to only full-batches .
Major contributing fields include cognitive science , computer science , educational psychology , anthropology , and applied linguistics .
By including design-based research within its methodological toolkit , learning sciences qualifies as a " design science , " with characteristics in common with other design sciences that employ design science such as engineering and computer science .
It would be a creation of the intersection of biology , artificial intelligence and modern microelectronics & mdash ; a blend of organic and electronic components .
Computer scientist Rodney Brooks has proposed sending a multitude of cheap , bug-like robots to explore Mars instead of solitary , expensive rovers .
Darwiche and Judea Pearl formulated the following postulates for iterated revision .
Multispectral image s can resolve even finer differences of spectrum or wavelength by measuring and storing more than the traditional 3 of common RGB color images .
They were published in his 1967 book on pattern recognition .
Laws of Robotics are a set of laws , rules , or principles , which are intended as a fundamental framework to underpin the behavior of robot s designed to have a degree of autonomy .
Robots of this degree of complexity do not yet exist , but they have been widely anticipated in science fiction , films and are a topic of active research and development in the fields of robotics and artificial intelligence .
In June 2016 , Satya Nadella , a CEO of Microsoft Corporation at the time , had an interview with the " Slate " magazine and roughly sketched five rules for artificial intelligences to be observed by their designers :
A single grid can be analysed for both content ( eyeball inspection ) and structure ( cluster analysis , principal component analysis , and a variety of structural indices relating to the complexity and range of the ratings being the chief techniques used ) .
It has become popular in many disciplines , such as image processing , computer graphics , computational geometry , optimization , computational fluid dynamics , and computational biophysics .
In " Influence " , Robert Cialdini ' s book about social psychology and influence tactics , Cialdini explains how common automatic response patterns are in human behavior , and how easily they can be triggered , even with erroneous cues.Cialdini , R.B. ( 2001 ) .
He describes an experiment conducted by social psychologists Ellen Langer , Chanowitz , and Blank which illustrates how compliant people will be with a request if they hear words that sound like they are being given a reason , even if no actual reason is provided .
The scale-invariant feature transform ( SIFT ) is a feature detection algorithm in computer vision to detect and describe local features in images .
Applications include object recognition , robotic mapping and navigation , image stitching , 3D modeling , gesture recognition , video tracking , individual identification of wildlife and match moving .
Lowe used a modification of the k-d tree algorithm called the best-bin-first search method that can identify the nearest neighbor search with high probability using only a limited amount of computation .
For online match moving , SIFT features again are extracted from the current video frame and matched to the features already computed for the world mode , resulting in a set of 2D-to-3D correspondences .
The dimension is reduced to 36 with Principal component analysis .
The size of this descriptor is reduced with Principal component analysis .
The covariance matrix for Principal component analysis is estimated on image patches collected from various images .
TD-Lambda is a learning algorithm invented by Richard S. Sutton based on earlier work on temporal difference learning by Arthur Samuel .
This mimics closely how the error function in TD is used for reinforcement learning .
In statistical classification , including machine learning , two main approaches are called the generative approach and the discriminative approach .
A special case of keyword spotting is wake word ( also called hot word ) detection used by personal digital assistants such as Alexa or Siri to " wake up " when their name is spoken .
Text normalization is frequently used when converting speech synthesis .
To prepare text for searching , it might also be stemming ( e.g. converting " flew " and " flying " both into " fly " ) , canonicalized ( e.g. consistently using American or British English spelling ) , or have stop word s removed .
In machine learning , the delta rule is a gradient descent learning rule for updating the weights of the inputs to artificial neurons in a single-layer neural network .
It is a special case of the more general backpropagation algorithm .
The delta rule is derived by attempting to minimize the error in the output of the neural network through gradient descent .
These uses include systems using digital signal processing , such as digital audio , digital video , digital photography , seismology , radar and weather forecasting systems .
The Cardea Robot Project was a research project led by Professor Rodney Brooks in the Humanoid Robotics Group at MIT .
Edsinger and Weber collaborated on many other robots as well , and their experience working with the Kismet
In general , however , a human is very capable of filtering out loud sounds ; similar techniques can be deployed in signal processing where suitable criteria for distinguishing between signals can be established ( see signal processing and notably adaptive signal processing .
In computer science and mathematical logic , a proof assistant or interactive theorem prover is a software tool to assist with the development of formal proof s by human-machine collaboration .
Boyer has conducted long term ethnographic fieldwork in Cameroon , where he studied the transmission of Fang oral epics and its traditional religion .
" A Guide for the Perplexed " is a short book by E. F. Schumacher , published in 1977 .
A Libyan is a person or thing of , from , or related to Libya in North Africa .
" Q " -learning is a model-free reinforcement learning algorithm to learn a policy telling an agent what action to take under what circumstances .
The term " secondary reinforcement " is borrowed from animal learning theory , to model state values via backpropagation : the state value v ( s " ) of the consequence situation is backpropagated to the previously encountered situations .
In 2014 Google DeepMind patented an application of Q-learning to deep learning , titled " deep reinforcement learning " or " deep Q-learning " that can play Atari 2600 games at expert human levels .
The DeepMind system used a deep convolutional neural network , with layers of tiled convolution al filters to mimic the effects of receptive fields .
In computer vision and image processing feature detection includes methods for computing abstractions of image information and making local decisions at every image point whether there is an image feature of a given type at that point or not .
Feature detection is a low-level image processing operation .
New features in Office XP include smart tags , a selection-based search feature that recognizes different types of text in a document so that users can perform additional actions ; a task pane interface that consolidates popular menu bar commands on the right side of the screen to facilitate quick access to them ; new document collaboration capabilities , support for MSN Groups and SharePoint ; and integrated handwriting recognition and speech recognition capabilities .
A new " Ask a Question " feature appears in the top-right corner of all Office XP programs and allows users to type natural language processing questions and receive answers without opening the Office Assistant ( " Clippy " ) or Office Help .
In the language of signal processing , this property can be satisfied if the transfer function of the system is not a direct function of time except as expressed by the input and output .
If a time-invariant system is also linear , it is the subject of linear time-invariant theory ( linear time-invariant ) with direct applications in NMR spectroscopy , seismology , circuit s , signal processing , control theory , and other technical areas .
Anti-aliasing filters are commonly used at the input of digital signal processing system 's analog to digital converter ; similar filters are used as reconstruction filter s at the output of such systems , for example in music players .
One of the way of achieving binary classification is using a linear predictor function ( related to the perceptron ) with a feature vector as input .
In speech recognition , features for recognizing phonemes can include noise ratios , length of sounds , relative power , filter matches and many others .
In computer vision , there are a large number of possible features , such as edges and objects .
In pattern recognition and machine learning , a feature vector is an n-dimensional vector of numerical features that represent some object .
Feature vectors are equivalent to the vectors of explanatory variable s used in statistical procedures such as linear regression .
Therefore , a preliminary step in many applications of machine learning and pattern recognition consists of selecting a subset of features , or Feature extraction a new and reduced set of features to facilitate learning , and to improve generalization and interpretability .
feature extraction or selecting features is a combination of art and science ; developing systems to do so is known as feature engineering .
Automating this process is feature learning , where a machine not only uses features for learning , but learns the features itself .
Bootstrap aggregating , also called bagging ( from bootstrap aggregating ) , is a machine learning ensemble meta-algorithm designed to improve the stability and accuracy of machine learning algorithms used in statistical classification and regression .
Although it is usually applied to Decision tree learning methods , it can be used with any type of method .
Bagging leads to " improvements for unstable procedures " ( Breiman , 1996 ) , which include , for example , artificial neural networks , classification and regression tree s , and subset selection in linear regression ( Breiman , 1994 ) .
To illustrate the basic principles of bagging , below is an analysis on the relationship between ozone and temperature ( data from Rousseeuw and Leroy ( 1986 ) , analysis done in R ) .
Not only does this alter the performance of all subsequent tests on the retained explanatory model , it may introduce bias and alter mean square error in estimation .
( This is a simple type of cross-validation and is often termed training-test or split-half validation .
Owing to the Poisson summation formula , in signal processing , the Dirac comb allows modelling sampling by " multiplication " with it , but it also allows modelling periodization by " convolution " with it .
In signal processing , this property on one hand allows sampling a function mathf ( t ) / math by " multiplication " with math \ operatorname { \ text { Ш } } _ T / math , and on the other hand it also allows the periodization of mathf ( t ) / math by " convolution " with math \ operatorname { \ text { Ш } } _ T / math ( ) .
Array processing is a wide area of research in the field of signal processing that extends from the simplest form of 1 dimensional line arrays to 2 and 3 dimensional array geometries .
By creating a physical model of the wave propagation , or in machine learning applications a training data set , the relationships between the signals received on spatially separated sensors can be leveraged for many applications .
Beamforming or spatial filtering is a signal processing technique used in sensor array s for directional signal transmission or reception .
HUBO ( ; designated KHR-3 ) is a walking humanoid robot , head mounted on a life-size walking bipedal frame , developed by the KAIST ( KAIST ) and released on January 6 , 2005 .
A HUBO entered by KAIST was the winner of the DARPA Robotics Challenge finals on June 6 , 2015 .
In signal processing , oversampling is the process of sampling a signal at a sampling frequency significantly higher than the Nyquist rate .
The Institute for Logic , Language and Computation ( ILLC ) is a research institute of the University of Amsterdam , in which researchers from the Faculty of Science and the Faculty of Humanities collaborate .
Research at the ILLC is interdisciplinary , and aims at bringing together insights from various disciplines concerned with information and information processing , such as logic , mathematics , computer science , computational linguistics , cognitive science , artificial intelligence , and philosophy .
In the beginning , it was an informal association of staff members from the Faculty of Mathematics and Computer Science and the Faculty of Philosophy , and was joined by computational linguists from the Faculty of Humanities in 1989 .
Phidgets can be programmed using a variety of software and programming languages , ranging from Java to Microsoft Excel .
In machine learning , backpropagation ( backprop ,
The goal of any supervised learning algorithm is to find a function that best maps a set of inputs to their correct output .
For regression analysis problems the squared error can be used as a loss function , for classification the cross entropy can be used .
One commonly used algorithm to find the set of weights that minimizes the error is gradient descent .
( Nevertheless , the ReLU activation function , which is non-differentiable at 0 , has become quite popular , e.g. in AlexNet )
This has been especially so in speech recognition , machine vision , natural language processing , and language structure learning research ( in which it has been used to explain a variety of phenomena related to first ) .
Random forests or random decision forests are an ensemble learning method for classification , regression and other tasks that operate by constructing a multitude of decision tree learning at training time and outputting the class that is the mode of the classes ( classification ) or mean prediction ( regression ) of the individual trees .
Decision tree .
The following technique was described in Breiman 's original paper and is implemented in the R package randomForest .
Instead of decision trees , linear models have been proposed and evaluated as base estimators in random forests , in particular multinomial logistic regression and naive Bayes classifier s .
OPeNDAP offers open-source libraries in C + + and Java , but many clients rely on community developed libraries such as libraries include embedded capabilities for retrieving ( array-style ) data from DAP servers .
The term " anthrobotics " was originally coined by Mark Rosheim in a paper entitled " Design of An Omnidirectional Arm " presented at the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers International Conference on Robotics and Automation , May 13-18 , 1990 , pp. 2162-2167 .
Rosheim says he derived the term from ... " Anthropomorphic and Robotics to distinguish the new generation of dexterous robots from its simple industrial robot forebears .
Trajectories of these systems are commonly measured and tracked as they move through time ( e.g. , an acoustic waveform ) , but in applications like image processing and field theory , the LTI systems also have trajectories in spatial dimensions .
It has been used in applied mathematics and has direct applications in NMR spectroscopy , seismology , circuit s , signal processing , control theory , and other technical areas .
Cognitive maps serve the construction and accumulation of spatial knowledge , allowing the " mind 's eye " to visualize images in order to reduce cognitive load , enhance recall and learning of information .
There is some overlap in the wavelength s of light to which the three types of cones ( L for long-wave , M for medium-wave , and S for short-wave light ) respond , so it is more efficient for the visual system to record " differences " between the responses of cones , rather than each type of cone 's individual response .
In 1957 , Leo Hurvich and Dorothea Jameson provided quantitative data for Hering 's color-opponent theory .
The opponent color theory can be applied to computer vision and implemented as the " Gaussian color model " and the " natural-vision-processing model " .Barghout , Lauren .
Common applications include image processing , where it is known as the Laplace filter , and in machine learning for cluster analysis and semi-supervised learning on neighborhood graphs .
This definition of the Laplacian is commonly used in numerical analysis and in image processing .
In image processing , bicubic interpolation is often chosen over bilinear or nearest-neighbor interpolation in image resampling , when speed is not an issue .
Super-resolution imaging techniques are used in general image processing and in super-resolution microscopy .
There is promising research on using convolutional neural network to perform super-resolution .
Gesture recognition can be conducted with techniques from computer vision and image processing .Sultana A , Rajapuspha T ( 2012 ) ,
" The Blank Slate : The Modern Denial of Human Nature " is a best-selling 2002 book by the cognitive psychologist Steven Pinker , in which the author makes a case against tabula rasa models in the social science s , arguing that human behavior is substantially shaped by evolutionary psychological adaptations .
Psychologist David Buss stated " This may be the most important book so far published in the 21st century .
DevRob is also related to work done in the domains of robotics and artificial life .
" Words and Rules : The Ingredients of Language " is a 1999 popular linguistics book by Steven Pinker about regular and irregular verb s .
FANUC Europe Corporation S.A. , a sister company , is headquartered in Luxembourg , with customers in Europe , and which provides sales , service and support in Europe and abroad .
Headquartered in Rochester Hills , Michigan , the company had 10 regional locations in the U.S. , Canada , Mexico and Brazil .
In 1992 , the company became a wholly owned subsidiary of FANUC Ltd of Oshino-mura , Japan .
The company was a member of the Robotics Industries Association ( RIA ) and of the International Federation of Robotics ( IFR ) .
This business unit was a wholly owned subsidiary of FANUC Ltd. of Japan and offered CNC systems , lasers , Manufacturing Intelligence software products , field repairs and advanced technical services , expanded training classes , a vast inventory of CNC replacement parts , PCB motor repair and return , field support , and CS-24 after hours support .
It had over 30 locations in the U.S. , Canada , Mexico , Brazil and Argentina .
In 1977 , the company was established as a wholly owned subsidiary of FANUC Ltd of Oshino-mura , Japan .
Fanuc India operations are led by Sonali Kulkarni .
" Computer Music Journal 12 / 4 , 1988 " Transfigured Wind " by American composer Roger Reynolds uses the phase vocoder to perform time-stretching of flute sounds.Serra , X. ' ( 2004 ) .
In statistics , econometrics and signal processing , an autoregressive ( AR ) model is a representation of a type of random process ; as such , it is used to describe certain time-varying processes in nature , economics , etc .
The predictive performance of the autoregressive model can be assessed as soon as estimation has been done if cross-validation is used .
Given a set of predicted values and a corresponding set of actual values for " X " for various time periods , a common evaluation technique is to use the mean squared prediction error ; other measures are also available ( see forecasting # forecasting accuracy ) .
The biconjugate gradient method provides a generalization to non-symmetric matrices .
Various nonlinear conjugate gradient method s seek minima of nonlinear equations .
As observed above , rsub " k " / sub is the negative gradient of " f " at x = xsub " k " / sub , so the gradient descent method would require to move in the direction rsub " k " / sub .
The same formula for is also used in the Fletcher-Reeves nonlinear conjugate gradient method .
Using the nonlinear conjugate gradient method formula
instead of the nonlinear conjugate gradient method formula
The mathematical explanation of the better convergence behavior of the method with the nonlinear conjugate gradient method formula is that the method is locally optimal in this case , in particular , it does not converge slower than the locally optimal steepest descent method .
In both the original and the preconditioned conjugate gradient methods one only needs to set math \ beta _ k : = 0 / math in order to make them locally optimal , using the line search , steepest descent methods .
Despite those humanoid robots for utilitarian uses , there are some humanoid robots which aims at entertainment uses , such as Sony ' s QRIO and Wow Wee ' s RoboSapien .
Empirical risk minimization ( ERM ) is a principle in statistical learning theory which defines a family of machine learning and is used to give theoretical bounds on their performance .
Consider the following situation , which is a general setting of many supervised learning problems .
In practice , machine learning algorithms cope with that either by employing a convex approximation to the 0-1 loss function ( like hinge loss for Support vector machine ) , which is easier to optimize , or by imposing assumptions on the distribution mathP ( x , y ) / math ( and thus stop being agnostic learning algorithms to which the above result applies ) .
In signal processing , a filter bank is an array of band-pass filters that separates the input signal into multiple components , each one carrying a single frequency sub-band of the original signal .
In digital signal processing , the term filter bank is also commonly applied to a bank of receivers .
Issues in Science and Religion , Ian Barbour , Prentice-Hall , 1966 , page 68 , 79
Wayne Proudfoot traces the roots of the notion of " religious experience " to the German theologian Friedrich Schleiermacher ( 1768-1834 ) , who argued that religion is based on a feeling of the infinite .
It supposes that many , if not all of the world 's great religions , have arisen around the teachings of mystics , including Buddha , Jesus , Lao Tze , and Krishna .
The Theosophical Society was formed in 1875 by Helena Blavatsky , Henry Steel Olcott , William Quan Judge and others to advance the spiritual principles and search for Truth known as Theosophy .
The best-known representatives of this amalgamated tradition are Annie Besant ( Theosophical Society ) , Swami Vivekenanda and Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan ( Neo-Vedanta ) , Anagarika Dharmapala , a 19th-century Sri Lankan Buddhist activist who founded the Maha Bodhi Society , and D.T. Suzuki , a Japanese scholar and Zen-Buddhist .
" Sex , Ecology , Spirituality : The Spirit of Evolution " is a 1995 book by integral philosopher Ken Wilber .
In the third chapter , " Individual And Social , " Wilber describes Erich Jantsch ' s account of co-evolution and self-organizing systems .
Linear discriminant analysis ( LDA ) , normal discriminant analysis ( NDA ) , or discriminant function analysis is a generalization of Fisher 's linear discriminant , a method used in statistics , pattern recognition , and machine learning to find a linear combination of features that characterizes or separates two or more classes of objects or events .
LDA is also closely related to principal component analysis ( PCA ) and factor analysis in that they both look for linear combinations of variables which best explain the data .
Discriminant analysis is used when groups are known a priori ( unlike in cluster analysis ) .
Without any further assumptions , the resulting classifier is referred to as QDA ( quadratic classifier ) .
In computerised Facial recognition system , each face is represented by a large number of pixel values .
The linear combinations obtained using Fisher 's linear discriminant are called " Fisher faces " , while those obtained using the related principal component analysis are called " eigenfaces " .
Logistic regression or other methods are now more commonly used .
Discriminant function analysis is very similar to logistic regression , and both can be used to answer the same research questions .
Several metrics use WordNet , a manually constructed lexical database of English words .
Natural language processing ( NLP ) is a field of computer science and linguistics .
Match moving is sometimes confused with motion capture , which records the motion of objects , often human actors , rather than the camera .
The first step is identifying and video tracking features .
Metacognition is studied in the domain of artificial intelligence and modelling .
Thomas Oriel Binford has been a researcher in image analysis and computer vision since 1967 .
" He was a Fulbright Scholar at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research in Mumbai , India from 1965 to 1966 , and a research scientist at the MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory from 1966 to 1970 .
From 1970 to 2000 he was a professor of computer science at Stanford University ; in 2000 he retired to become an emeritus professor .
, a company in Bangalore , India specializing in online handwriting recognition software .
These can be used to calculate a depth map through advanced image processing techniques .
In 2001 , Jordan and others resigned from the editorial board of the journal " Machine Learning " .
In machine learning , a common task is the study and construction of algorithms that can learn from and make predictions on data .
The model is initially fit on a training dataset , The model ( e.g. a neural net or a naive Bayes classifier ) is trained on the training dataset using a supervised learning method , for example using optimization methods such as gradient descent or stochastic gradient descent .
If the data in the test dataset has never been used in training ( for example in cross-validation ) , the test dataset is also called a holdout dataset .
For example , if the most suitable classifier for the problem is sought , the training dataset is used to train the candidate algorithms , the validation dataset is used to compare their performances and decide which one to take and , finally , the test dataset is used to obtain the performance characteristics such as accuracy , sensitivity , specificity , F-measure , and so on .
A dataset can be repeatedly split into a training dataset and a validation dataset : this is known as cross-validation .
The descent direction can be computed by various methods , such as gradient descent , Newton 's method and quasi-Newton method .
One example of the former is conjugate gradient method .
This concept is known as dynamic programming .
A Java implementation using zero based array indexes along with a convenience method for printing the solved order of operations :
Group concept mapping involves a structured multi-step process , including brainstorming , sorting and rating , multidimensional scaling and cluster analysis , and the generation and interpretation of multiple maps .
Unlike Novak 's concept maps and Buzan 's mind maps , " group concept mapping " has a structured mathematical process ( sorting and rating , multidimensional scaling and cluster analysis ) for organizing and visually representing multiple ideas of a group through a series of specific steps .
McClelland and David Rumelhart are known for their debate with Steven Pinker and Alan Prince regarding the necessity of a language-specific learning module .
Eye trackers are used in research on the visual system , in psychology , in psycholinguistics , marketing , as an input device for human-computer interaction , and in product design .
In the 21st century , the use of artificial intelligence ( AI ) and artificial neural network s has become a viable way to complete eye-tracking tasks and analysis .
In particular , the convolutional neural network lends itself to eye-tracking , as it is designed for image-centric tasks .
The practice of deep learning also allows for a given neural network to improve at a given task when given enough sample data .
Eye tracking in human-computer interaction ( HCI ) typically investigates the scanpath for usability purposes , or as a method of input in gaze-contingent displays , also known as gaze-based interfaces .Majaranta , P. , Aoki , H. , Donegan , M. , Hansen , D.W. , Hansen , J.P. , Hyrskykari , A. , Räihä , K.J. , " Gaze Interaction and Applications of Eye Tracking : Advances in Assistive Technologies " , IGI Global , 2011
A wide variety of disciplines use eye-tracking techniques , including cognitive science ; psychology ( notably psycholinguistics ; the visual world paradigm ) ; human-computer interaction ( HCI ) ; human factors and ergonomics ; marketing research and medical research ( neurological diagnosis ) .
Medical algorithm s include decision tree approaches to healthcare treatment ( e.g. , if symptom s A , B , and C are evident , then use treatment X ) and also less clear-cut tools aimed at reducing or defining uncertainty .
In 1998 , Prince was named a fellow of the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation .
Fluid construction grammar ( FCG ) was designed by Luc Steels and his collaborators for doing experiments on .
For example , in solving the linear programming problem , the active set gives the hyperplane s that intersect at the solution point .
In quadratic programming , as the solution is not necessarily on one of the edges of the bounding polygon , an estimation of the active set gives us a subset of inequalities to watch while searching the solution , which reduces the complexity of the search .
In photography and image processing , color balance is the global adjustment of the intensities of the colors ( typically red , green , and blue primary colors ) .
Prof. Selmer Bringsjord ( born November 24 , 1958 ) is the chair of the Department of Cognitive Science at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and a professor of Computer Science and Cognitive Science .
He also holds an appointment in the Lally School of Management & Technology and teaches artificial Intelligence ( AI ) , formal logic , human and machine reasoning , and philosophy of AI .
Continuing the example using the maximum likelihood estimator , the probability density function ( pdf ) of the noise for one sample mathw n / math is
In other words , the sample mean is the ( necessarily unique ) efficient estimator , and thus also the minimum variance unbiased estimator ( MVUE ) , in addition to being the maximum likelihood estimator .
Further , in the case of estimation based on a single sample , it demonstrates philosophical issues and possible misunderstandings in the use of maximum likelihood estimators and likelihood functions .
The sample maximum is the maximum likelihood estimator for the population maximum , but , as discussed above , it is biased .
The research activities include an annual research conference , the RuleML Symposium , also known as RuleML for short .
Suitable configurations were found by analytically determining combinations of contours from multiple views , of the object in different poses , and through principal component analysis ( PCA ) on the deforming object .
The condensation algorithm has also been used for facial recognition system in a video sequence .
An implementation in MATLAB can be found on the .
In image processing , a Gabor filter , named after Dennis Gabor , is a linear filter used for texture analysis , which means that it basically analyzes whether there are any specific frequency content in the image in specific directions in a localized region around the point or region of analysis .
2-D Gabor filters have rich applications in image processing , especially in feature extraction for texture analysis and segmentation. mathf / math defines the frequency being looked for in the texture .
The Gabor space is very useful in image processing applications such as optical character recognition , iris recognition and fingerprint recognition .
( Code for Gabor feature extraction from images in MATLAB can be found at
This is an example implementation in Python :
This is an example implementation in MATLAB / Octave :
In machine learning and statistics , classification is the problem of identifying to which of a set of categories ( sub-populations ) a new observation belongs , on the basis of a training set of data containing observations ( or instances ) whose category membership is known .
Classification is an example of pattern recognition .
In the terminology of machine learning , classification is considered an instance of supervised learning , i.e. , learning where a training set of correctly identified observations is available .
The corresponding unsupervised learning procedure is known as cluster analysis , and involves grouping data into categories based on some measure of inherent similarity or distance .
In statistics , where classification is often done with logistic regression or a similar procedure , the properties of observations are termed explanatory variable s ( or independent variable s , regressors , etc .
In machine learning , the observations are often known as " instances " , the explanatory variables are termed " features " ( grouped into a feature vector ) , and the possible categories to be predicted are " classes " .
Other fields may use different terminology : e.g. in community ecology , the term " classification " normally refers to cluster analysis , i.e. , a type of unsupervised learning , rather than the supervised learning described in this article .
Classification and clustering are examples of the more general problem of pattern recognition , which is the assignment of some sort of output value to a given input value .
Classification can be thought of as two separate problems - binary classification and multiclass classification .
" In : Becker , B. , Sebastian Thrun , Obermayer , K. ( Eds ) " Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 15 : Proceedings of the 2002 Conference " , MIT Press .
In unsupervised learning , classifiers form the backbone of cluster analysis and in Supervised learning or semi-supervised learning , classifiers are how the system characterizes and evaluates unlabeled data .
As a performance metric , the uncertainty coefficient has the advantage over simple accuracy in that it is not affected by the relative sizes of the different classes .
In some of these it is employed as a data mining procedure , while in others more detailed statistical modeling is undertaken .
MacSpeech , Inc. was a New Hampshire -based technology company that produced software-based speech recognition and voice dictation solutions for the Apple ecosystem .
Dr. Julesz emigrated from Hungary to the United States following the 1956 Soviet invasion .
Additional work by Christopher Tyler and Maureen Clarke led to encoding the same data into a single image which did not require a stereoscope for viewing .
In 2001 Jarle Breivik at University of Oslo created a system of magnetic building blocks , which in response to temperature fluctuations , spontaneously form self-replicating polymers .
" Oxford English Dictionary " , 3rd ed. s.v. " probit " ( article dated June 2007 ) : The purpose of the model is to estimate the probability that an observation with particular characteristics will fall into a specific one of the categories ; moreover , classifying observations based on their predicted probabilities is a type of binary classification model .
As such it treats the same set of problems as does logistic regression using similar techniques .
The parameters " β " are typically estimated by maximum likelihood .
General sampling from the truncated normal can be achieved using approximations to the normal CDF and the probit function , and R has a function codertnorm ( ) / code for generating truncated-normal samples .
A fast method for computing maximum likelihood estimates for the probit model was proposed by Ronald Fisher as an appendix to Bliss ' work in 1935 .
He was educated at the University of Chicago , University of Bridgeport ( BA in mathematics , 1963 ) , Stanford University ( MSc in mathematics , 1966 ) , University of Warsaw and the University of Edinburgh ( PhD in computer science , 1970 ) .
Kowalski was elected a Fellow of the American Association for Artificial Intelligence in 1991 , of the European Co-ordinating Committee for Artificial Intelligence in 1999 , and the Association for Computing Machinery in 2001 .
In 1984 , Narendra Karmarkar developed a method for linear programming called Karmarkar 's algorithm , which runs in provably polynomial time and is also very efficient in practice .
The PBM format was invented by Jef Poskanzer in the 1980s as a format that allowed monochrome bitmaps to be transmitted within an email message as plain ASCII text , allowing it to survive any changes in text formatting .
Treisman was elected to the Royal Society of London in 1989 , the US National Academy of Sciences in 1994 , and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1995 , as well as a William James Fellow of the American Psychological Society in 2002 .
( February 20 , 1912 - August 11 , 2011 ) was an American inventor , best known for creating Unimate , the first industrial robot .
He talked with many major corporations in the United States during his search .
Joseph Engelberger , at that time , was chief of engineering in the aircraft products division at Manning , Maxwell and Moore in Stratford , Connecticut .
This new Condec division was called Unimation Incorporated with Joseph Engelberger as its president .. Accessed August 14 , 2011 .
In 1960 , Devol personally sold the first Unimate robot , which was shipped in 1961 to General Motors .
In 1978 , the PUMA ( Programmable Universal Machine for Assembly ) robot was developed by Unimation from Vicarm ( Victor Scheinman ) and with support from General Motors .
Although the modifications presented by Mehrotra were intended for interior point algorithms for linear programming , the ideas have been extended and successfully applied to quadratic programming as well .
Voice activity detection ( VAD ) , also known as speech activity detection or speech detection , is a technique used in speech processing in which the presence or absence of human speech is detected .
The main uses of VAD are in speech coding and speech recognition .
The company was founded on February 4 , 2005 by Palm founder Jeff Hawkins with his longtime business partner Donna Dubinsky and Stanford graduate student Dileep George .
The mission of NuPIC is to build and support a community that is interested in machine learning and machine intelligence based on modeling the neocortex and its principles .
AdaBoost , short for " Adaptive Boosting " , is a machine learning meta-algorithm formulated by Yoav Freund and Robert Schapire , who won the 2003 Gödel Prize for their work .
Every learning algorithm tends to suit some problem types better than others , and typically has many different parameters and configurations to adjust before it achieves optimal performance on a dataset , AdaBoost ( with Decision tree learning as the weak learners ) is often referred to as the best out-of-the-box classifier .
Unlike neural network s and Support vector machine , the AdaBoost training process selects only those features known to improve the predictive power of the model , reducing dimensionality and potentially improving execution time as irrelevant features need not be computed .
Thus AdaBoost algorithms perform either gradient descent ( find mathh ( x ) / math with the steepest gradient , choose math \ alpha / math to minimize test error ) or Newton ( choose some target point , find math \ alpha h ( x ) / math that brings mathF _ t / math closest to that point ) optimization of training error .
LogitBoost represents an application of established logistic regression techniques to the AdaBoost method .
This can be accomplished by backfitting , linear programming or some other method .
Automatic number-plate recognition ( ANPR ; see also other names below ) is a technology that uses optical character recognition on images to read vehicle registration plate s to create vehicle location data .
ANPR uses optical character recognition ( OCR ) on images taken by cameras .
Vehicle registration plates in Saudi Arabia use white background , but several vehicle types may have a different background .
The Home Office states the purpose of automatic number-plate recognition in the United Kingdom is to help detect , deter and disrupt criminality including tackling organised crime groups and terrorists .
Transport for London ( TfL ) uses ANPR systems and charges motorists a daily fee of £ 11.50 if they enter , leave or move around within the congestion charge zone between 7 a.m. and 6 : 00 p.m. , Monday to Friday .
John Searle ( 1999 , pp. 85 ) stresses that " competence " in predicting / explaining human behaviour involves being able to both recognize others as " " intentional " " beings , and interpret others ' minds as having " intentional states " ( e.g. , beliefs and desires ) :
Behaviorists following Wundt , Edward Thorndike , Watson , and others rejected introspective reports as data for an objective science of psychology .
The ' poster child ' of this oppositional stance is a thought experiment ( Gedankenexperiment ) called Searle 's Chinese Room ( SCR ) , named after its inventor , philosopher John Searle .
LTP has received much support since it was first observed by Terje Lømo in 1966 and is still the subject of many modern studies and clinical research .
His other interests include temporal reasoning , event semantics , spatial language , language annotation , computational linguistics , and machine learning .
The TimeML project is a standard markup language for temporal events in a document , and has recently been adopted as ISO-TImeML by the International Organization for Standardization .
His previous work included the Medstract project , an effort to extract information from medical documents using current natural language processing technology .
Thresholding is the simplest method of image segmentation .
A Nyquist plot is a parametric plot of a frequency response used in automatic control and signal processing .
For a computer vision system analysing an unknown scene , there is no way to know a priori what scales are appropriate for describing the interesting structures in the image data .
This overall framework has been applied to a large variety of problems in computer vision , including feature detection , feature classification , image segmentation , image matching , motion estimation , computation of shape cues and object recognition .
Recent work has shown that also more complex operations , such as scale-invariant object recognition can be performed in this way ,
Derived from feedforward neural networks , RNNs can use their internal state ( memory ) to process variable length sequences of inputs .
Such controlled states are referred to as gated state or gated memory , and are part of long short-term memory networks ( LSTMs ) and gated recurrent unit s .
Long short-term memory ( LSTM ) networks were invented by Sepp Hochreiter and Jürgen Schmidhuber in 1997 and set accuracy records in multiple applications domains .
Around 2007 , LSTM started to revolutionize speech recognition , outperforming traditional models in certain speech applications .
LSTM broke records for improved machine translation ,
For supervised learning in discrete time settings , sequences of real-valued input vectors arrive at the input nodes , one vector at a time .
In reinforcement learning settings , no teacher provides target signals .
Michael I. Jordan networks are similar to Elman networks .
Long short-term memory ( LSTM ) is a deep learning system that avoids the vanishing gradient problem .
LSTM can learn to recognize context-sensitive languages unlike previous models based on hidden Markov model s ( HMM ) and similar concepts .
The combined system is analogous to a Turing machine or Von Neumann architecture but is differentiable end-to-end , allowing it to be efficiently trained with gradient descent .
Greg Snider of HP Labs describes a system of cortical computing with memristive nanodevices .
Various methods for doing so were developed in the 1980s and early 1990s by Werbos , Williams , Robinson , Jürgen Schmidhuber , Sepp Hochreiter , Pearlmutter and others .
The standard method is called " backpropagation through time " or BPTT , and is a generalization of back-propagation for feed-forward networks. which is an instance of automatic differentiation in the forward accumulation mode with stacked tangent vectors .
The most common global optimization method for training RNNs is genetic algorithm s , especially in unstructured networks .
As such , it is different from its descendant : recurrent neural network s .
The feedforward neural network was the first and simplest type of artificial neural network devised .
It calculates the errors between calculated output and sample output data , and uses this to create an adjustment to the weights , thus implementing a form of gradient descent .
Single-layer perceptrons are only capable of learning linearly separable patterns ; in 1969 in a famous monograph entitled " Perceptrons " , Marvin Minsky and Seymour Papert showed that it was impossible for a single-layer perceptron network to learn an XOR function ( nonetheless , it was known that multi-layer perceptrons are capable of producing any possible boolean function ) .
With this choice , the single-layer network is identical to the logistic regression model , widely used in statistical model ing .
The logistic function is also known as the sigmoid function .
It has a continuous derivative , which allows it to be used in backpropagation .
In many applications the units of these networks apply a " sigmoid function " as an activation function .
Multi-layer networks use a variety of learning techniques , the most popular being " back-propagation " .
To adjust weights properly , one applies a general method for non-linear optimization that is called gradient descent .
Today there are practical methods ! -- examples ? -- that make back-propagation in multi-layer perceptrons the tool of choice for many machine learning tasks .
Various activation functions can be used , and there can be relations between weights , as in convolutional neural network s .
It has a rich set of features , libraries for constraint logic programming , multithreading , unit testing , GUI , interfacing to Java , ODBC and others , literate programming , a web server , SGML , RDF , RDFS , developer tools ( including an IDE with a GUI debugger and GUI profiler ) , and extensive documentation .
The name SWI is derived from ( " Social Science Informatics " ) , the former name of the group at the University of Amsterdam , where Wielemaker is employed .
It supports optical character recognition ( OCR ) of text documents .
" " ( " Without the voice of Catherine-Nicole Lemaure and Vaucanson 's duck , you would have nothing to remind you of the glory of France .
" In Thomas Pynchon ' s historical novel " Mason & Dixon " , Vaucanson 's duck attains consciousness and pursues an exiled Parisian chef across the United States .
Artificial intelligence and cognitive modeling try to simulate some properties of biological neural networks .
In the artificial intelligence field , artificial neural networks have been applied successfully to speech recognition , image analysis and adaptive control , in order to construct software agents ( in computer and video games ) or autonomous robot s .
Hebbian learning is considered to be a ' typical ' unsupervised learning rule and its later variants were early models for long term potentiation .
Frank Rosenblatt ( 1975 ) .
Neural network research stagnated after the publication of machine learning research by Marvin Minsky and Seymour Papert ( 1969 ) .
Also key in later advances was the backpropagation algorithm which effectively solved the exclusive-or problem ( Werbos 1975 ) .
They can be used to model complex relationships between inputs and outputs or to Pattern recognition in data .
One classical type of artificial neural network is the recurrent neural network Hopfield network .
The concept of a neural network appears to have first been proposed by Alan Turing in his 1948 paper " Intelligent Machinery " in which called them " B-type unorganised machines .
Unsupervised neural networks can also be used to learn representations of the input that capture the salient characteristics of the input distribution , e.g. , see the Boltzmann machine ( 1983 ) , and more recently , deep learning algorithms , which can implicitly learn the distribution function of the observed data .
To gain this understanding , neuroscientists strive to make a link between observed biological processes ( data ) , biologically plausible mechanisms for neural processing and learning ( biological neural network models ) and theory ( statistical learning theory and information theory ) .
Between 2009 and 2012 , the recurrent neural network s and deep feedforward neural network s developed in the research group of Jürgen Schmidhuber at the Swiss AI Lab IDSIA have won eight international competitions in pattern recognition and machine learning .
Variants of the back-propagation algorithm as well as unsupervised methods by Geoff Hinton and colleagues at the University of Toronto can be used to train deep , highly nonlinear neural architectures , { { cite journal
Deep learning feedforward networks alternate convolution al layers and max-pooling layers , topped by several pure classification layers .
Indian Institute of Science , University of Pennsylvania
Aravind Krishna Joshi ( August 5 , 1929 - December 31 , 2017 ) was the Henry Salvatori Professor of Computer and Cognitive Science in the computer science department of the University of Pennsylvania .
Joshi defined the tree-adjoining grammar formalism which is often used in computational linguistics and natural language processing .
Joshi studied at Pune University and the Indian Institute of Science , where he was awarded a BE in electrical engineering and a DIISc in communication engineering respectively .
in natural language processing , contractions such as " ' s , " " n 't , " and the like are considered
Typical Brill taggers use a few hundred rules , which may be developed by linguistic intuition or by machine learning on a pre-tagged corpus .
In information theory , the cross entropy between two probability distribution s mathp / math and mathq / math over the same underlying set of events measures the average number of bit s needed to identify an event drawn from the set if a coding scheme used for the set is optimized for an estimated probability distribution mathq / math , rather than the true distribution mathp / math .
An example is language model ing , where a model is created based on a training set mathT / math , and then its cross-entropy is measured on a test set to assess how accurate the model is in predicting the test data .
Cross entropy can be used to define a loss function in machine learning and optimization .
More specifically , consider logistic regression , which ( among other things ) can be used to classify observations into two possible classes ( often simply labelled math0 / math and math1 / math ) .
where the vector of weights math \ mathbf { w } / math is optimized through some appropriate algorithm such as gradient descent .
SCIgen is a computer program that uses context-free grammar to randomly generate nonsense in the form of computer science research papers .
From 2000 until 2005 , the WMSCI was also sponsored by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers .
Refereeing performed on behalf of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers has also been subject to criticism after fake papers were discovered in conference publications , most notably by Labbé and a researcher using the pseudonym of Schlangemann .
Cyril Labbé from Joseph Fourier University demonstrated the vulnerability of " h " -index calculations based on Google Scholar output by feeding it a large set of SCIgen-generated documents that were citing each other , effectively an academic link farm , in a 2010 paper .
The Popular Front for Democracy ( " Khoeetsa ea Sechaba " ) is a political party in Lesotho .
This " Machine learning " adapts , by way of the device memory , to a user 's " disambiguating " feedback that results in corrective key presses , such as pressing a " next " key to get to the intention .
Robert M. Haralick ( born 1943 ) is Distinguished Professor in Computer Science at Graduate Center of the City University of New York ( CUNY ) .
Haralick is one of the leading figures in computer vision , pattern recognition , and image analysis .
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers ( IEEE ) and a Fellow and past president of the International Association for Pattern Recognition .
In 2000 Haralick accepted a Distinguished Professorship position at the computer science department of the Graduate Center , City University of New York .
Haralick has made a series of contributions in the field of computer vision .
In the feature detection area , Haralick has developed the facet model for image processing .A Facet Model for Image Data , ( with L. Watson ) , Computer Graphics and Image Processing , Vol .
Haralick is a Fellow of IEEE for his contributions in computer vision and image processing and a Fellow of the International Association for Pattern Recognition ( IAPR ) for his contributions in pattern recognition , image processing , and for service to IAPR .
Often , concepts from the field of incremental learning are applied to cope with structural changes , on-line learning and real-time demands .
Data stream mining can be considered a subfield of data mining , machine learning , and knowledge discovery .
Around that time , a working group on Multi-Dimensional Databases ( " Arbeitskreis Multi-Dimensionale Datenbanken " ) was established at German Gesellschaft für Informatik .
Datacube Inc was an image processing company selling hardware and software applications for the PC market in 1996 , however without addressing datacubes as such .
Web Coverage Processing Service is a geo datacube analytics language issued by the Open Geospatial Consortium in 2008 .
For example , the EarthServer initiative unites data centers from different continents offering 3-D x / y / t satellite image timeseries and 4-D x / y / z / t weather data for retrieval and server-side processing through the Open Geospatial Consortium WCPS geo datacube query language standard .
" The Iron Man : A Children 's Story in Five Nights " is a 1968 science fiction novel by British Poet Laureate Ted Hughes , first published by Faber and Faber in the UK with illustrations by George Worsley Adamson .The subtitle of the first edition was " A Story in Five Nights " .
See TALK # Editions-- Pete Townshend produced a musical concept album based on the novel in 1989 , while Brad Bird directed a critically acclaimed animated film adaptation in 1999 .
In 1999 , Warner Bros. released an animated film using the novel as a basis , entitled " The Iron Giant " , directed by Brad Bird and co-produced by Pete Townshend .
In pattern recognition , the " k " -nearest neighbors algorithm ( " k " -NN ) is a non-parametric method used for classification and regression .
Using an approximate nearest neighbor search algorithm makes " k- " NN computationally tractable even for large data sets .
Transforming the input data into the set of features is called feature extraction .
An example of a typical computer vision computation pipeline for Facial recognition system using " k " -NN including feature extraction and dimension reduction pre-processing steps ( usually implemented with OpenCV ) :
Feature extraction and dimension reduction can be combined in one step using Principal Component Analysis ( PCA ) , linear discriminant analysis ( LDA ) , or canonical correlation analysis ( CCA ) techniques as a pre-processing step , followed by clustering by " k " -NN on feature vectors in reduced-dimension space .
In machine learning this process is also called low-dimensional embedding .Shaw , Blake ; and Jebara , Tony ; " Structure preserving embedding , " in " Proceedings of the 26th Annual International Conference on Machine Learning " , ACM , 2009
A confusion matrix or " matching matrix " is often used as a tool to validate the accuracy of " k " -NN classification .
Lucille Ball made one of her earliest film appearances during the 1930s in a Pathé Newsreel demonstrating the Sonovox .
Stevie Wonder first used a talk box on his album " Music of My Mind " in early 1972 .
The first high-powered Talk Box was developed by Bob Heil .
The 1974 hit single " Tell Me Something Good , " performed by Rufus and Chaka Khan and written by Stevie Wonder , which peaked at number three on the " Billboard " Hot 100 , was among the earliest hits to use the guitar talk box .
In an interview for the 1999 DVD " Live in Detroit " , Peter Frampton says he first heard the talk box in 1970 while sitting in on sessions for George Harrison ' s " All Things Must Pass " .
Roger Troutman , lead singer of the R & B group Zapp , used the talk box ( first with a Minimoog synthesizer , and later a Yamaha DX100 ) on the group 's first hit single in 1980 , " More Bounce to the Ounce , " and in numerous other songs including Tupac Shakur ' s " California Love .
The talk box was used in Elton John ' s 1975 album " Rock of the Westies " , on the song " Dan Dare ( Pilot of the Future ) , " as played by Davey Johnstone .
in machine learning , a quadratic classifier is statistical classifier that uses a quadratic decision surface to separate measurements of two or more classes of objects or events .
Quadratic discriminant analysis ( QDA ) is closely related to linear discriminant analysis ( LDA ) , where it is assumed that the measurements from each class are normally distributed .
This is an example of the so-called kernel trick , which can be applied to linear discriminant analysis , as well as the support vector machine .
In 1984 , Milton Bradley released the 3D Imager , a primitive form of active shutter glasses that used a motorized rotating disc with transparencies as physical shutters , for the Vectrex .
It works with traditional 2D flat panels and HDTV sets and uses expensive glasses with complex color filters and dedicated image processing that allow natural color perception with a 3D experience .
Even though there are no widely accepted standard values for HRV that can be used for clinical purposes , The Task Force of the European Society of Cardiology and Heart Rhythm Society ( formerly called North American Society of Pacing Electrophysiology ) provided initial normative values of standard measures of HRV
It was written by his father , William Chomsky , one of the leading Hebrew scholars at the time .
Mouton & Co was a Netherlands publishing house based in The Hague .
American philosopher John Searle called it a " remarkable intellectual achievement " of its time .
With its formal and logical treatment of language , " Syntactic Structures " also brought linguistics and the new field of computer science closer together .
In his 1964 presidential address to the Linguistic Society of America , American linguist Charles Hockett considered " Syntactic Structures " one of " only four major breakthroughs in modern linguistics .
The Linde-Buzo-Gray algorithm ( introduced by Yoseph Linde , Andrés Buzo and Robert M. Gray in 1980 ) is a vector quantization algorithm to derive a good codebook .
Tomasello also resorts to an evolutionary two-step scenario ( see below ) , and to philosophical concepts borrowed from Paul Grice , John Searle , Margaret Gilbert , Michael Bratman , and anthropologist Dan Sperber .
Philosopher of language John Searle explains the latter by asking readers to consider sentences like " The cat is on the mat .
Eric 's Pixel Expansion ( EPX ) is an algorithm developed by Eric Johnston at LucasArts around 1992 , when porting the SCUMM engine games from the IBM PC ( which ran at 320 × 200 × 256 colors ) to the early color Macintosh computers , which ran at more or less double that resolution .
Licensing the original patent awarded to inventor George Devol , Engelberger developed the first industrial robot in the United States , the Unimate , in the 1950s .
Unimation purchased Victor Scheinman ' s Vicarm Inc. in 1977 , and with Scheinman 's help , the company created and began producing the Programmable Universal Machine for Assembly , a new model of robotic arm , and using Scheinman 's cutting-edge VAL programming language .
Engelberger was elected to the National Academy of Engineering in 1984 .
Engelberger 's most famous co-invention , the Unimate industrial robotic arm , was among the first inductees into the Robot Hall of Fame in 2003 .
1963 ) is a professor of Computer Science at the Technion Israel Institute of Technology .
Ahmet Zappa and Tanya Memme hosted all three seasons while Tanika Ray only hosted the first season with Dan Danknick replacing her for the second and third seasons .
Solomon Marcus ( ; 1 March 1925 - 17 March 2016 ) was a Romanian mathematician , member of the Mathematical Section of the Romanian Academy ( full member since 2001 ) and emeritus professor of the University of Bucharest ' s Faculty of Mathematics .
His main research was in the fields of mathematical analysis , mathematical and computational linguistics and computer science , but he also published numerous papers on various cultural topics : poetics , linguistics , semiotics , philosophy and history of science and education .
He graduated from Ferdinand I High School in 1944 , and completed his studies at the University of Bucharest ' s Faculty of Science , Department of Mathematics , in 1949 .
Marcus published about 50 books in Romanian , English , French , German , Italian , Spanish , Russian , Greek , Hungarian , Czech , Serbo-Croatian , and about 400 research articles in specialized journals in almost all European countries , in the United States , Canada , South America , Japan , India , and New Zealand among others ; he is cited by
With such remarkable attributes , fuzzy systems have been widely and successfully applied to control , classification and modeling problems ( Ebrahim Mamdani , 1974 ) ( Klir and Yuan , 1995 ) ( Pedrycz and Gomide , 1998 ) .
In image processing , a Gaussian blur ( also known as Gaussian smoothing ) is the result of blurring an image by a Gaussian function ( named after mathematician and scientist Carl Friedrich Gauss ) .
Gaussian smoothing is also used as a pre-processing stage in computer vision algorithms in order to enhance image structures at different scales - see scale space representation and scale space implementation .
However , other evidence from developmental studies has been presented ( most famously by Steven Pinker Pinker , S. ( 1994 ) .
Robot welding is a relatively new application of robotics , even though robots were first introduced into US industry during the 1960s .
" The manipulator is what makes the robot move , and the design of these systems can be categorized into several common types , such as SCARA and cartesian coordinate robot , which use different coordinate systems to direct the arms of the machine .
In the theory of artificial neural network s , winner-take-all networks are a case of competitive learning in recurrent neural network s .
) The software has three primary areas of functionality : voice recognition in dictation with speech transcribed as written text , recognition of spoken commands , and text-to-speech : speaking text content of a document .
DragonDictate was first released for DOS , and utilized hidden Markov models , a probabilistic method for temporal pattern recognition .
At the time , the hardware was not powerful enough to address the problem of word segmentation , and DragonDictate was unable to determine the boundaries of words during continuous speech input .
GLIMMER considers the local composition sequence dependencies which makes GLIMMER more flexible and more powerful when compared to fixed-order Markov model .
Alternatively , an online version is hosted by National Center for Biotechnology Information .
The algorithm has a loose relationship to the " k " -nearest neighbor classifier , a popular machine learning technique for classification that is often confused with " k " -means due to the name .
This is known as nearest centroid classifier or Rocchio algorithm .
It has been successfully used in market segmentation , computer vision , and astronomy among many other domains .
A use case for this approach is image segmentation .
" k " -means clustering has been used as a feature learning ( or dictionary learning ) step , in either ( Semi-supervised learning ) supervised learning or unsupervised learning .
This use of " k " -means has been successfully combined with simple , linear classifier s for semi-supervised learning in Natural language processing ( specifically for named entity recognition ) and in computer vision .
This aids in explaining the successful application of " k " -means to feature learning .
In image processing , digital reconstruction filters are used both to recreate images from samples as in medical imaging { { cite conference
The Text REtrieval Conference ( TREC ) is an ongoing series of workshop s focusing on a list of different information retrieval ( IR ) research areas , or " tracks .
Logic Programming Associates ( LPA ) is a company specializing in logic programming and artificial intelligence software .
The current LPA software range comprises an integrated AI toolset which covers various aspects of Artificial Intelligence including Logic Programming , Expert Systems , Knowledge-based Systems , Data Mining , Agents and Case-based reasoning etc .
The term " knowledge engineer " first appeared in the 1980s in the first wave of commercialization of Artificial intelligence - the purpose of the job is to work with a client who wants an expert system created for them or their business .
For example , the best system entering MUC-7 scored 93.39 % of F-measure while human annotators scored 97.60 % and 96.95 % .
This is closely related to rigid designator s , as defined by Kripke , but exclude pronouns ( such as " it " ; see coreference resolution ) , descriptions that pick out a referent by its properties ( see also De dicto and de re ) , and names for kinds of things as opposed to individuals ( for example " Bank " ) .
This segmentation problem is formally similar to Shallow parsing .
BBN categories , proposed in 2002 , is used for " question answering " and consists of 29 types and 64 subtypes .
Such models may given partial credit for overlapping matches ( such as using the Jaccard index criterion .
NER systems have been created that use linguistic grammar -based techniques as well as statistical model s such as machine learning .
Hand-crafted grammar-based systems typically obtain better precision , but at the cost of lower recall and months of work by experienced Computational linguistics .
Since about 1998 , there has been a great deal of interest in entity identification in the molecular biology , bioinformatics , and medical natural language processing communities .
The main efforts are directed to reducing the annotation labor by employing semi-supervised learning ,
There are some researchers who did some comparisons about the NER performances from different statistical models such as HMM ( hidden Markov model ) , ME ( maximum entropy ) , and CRF ( conditional random field s ) , and feature sets.Han , Li-Feng Aaron , Wong , Fai , Chao , Lidia Sam .
A recently emerging task of identifying " important expressions " in text and Entity linking can be seen as an instance of extremely fine-grained named-entity recognition , where the types are the actual Wikipedia pages describing the ( potentially ambiguous ) concepts .
The second objective is a reply to arguments such as John Searle ' s Chinese room argument , Hubert Dreyfus ' s critique of AI or Roger Penrose ' s argument in " The Emperor 's New Mind " .
This reply was made as early as 1950 , by Alan Turing in his classic paper " Computing Machinery and Intelligence .
The third objective is generally called artificial general intelligence by researchers .
However , Ray Kurzweil prefers the term " strong AI .
Estimating the relative likelihood of different phrases is useful in many natural language processing applications , especially those that generate text as an output .
Language modeling is used in speech recognition , Kuhn , Roland , and Renato De Mori .
This is done using standard neural net training algorithms such as stochastic gradient descent with backpropagation .
where ≈ is made precise by stipulating that its right-hand side must be the Nearest neighbor search of the value of the left-hand side .
KUKA is a German manufacturer of industrial robot s and solution s for factory automation .
The KUKA Robotics Corporation has 25 subsidiaries worldwide , mostly sales and service subsidiaries , including in the United States , Australia , Canada , Mexico , Brazil , China , Japan , South Korea , Taiwan , India , Russia and most European countries .
The company is a member of the Robotics Industries Association ( RIA ) , of the International Federation of Robotics ( IFR ) and the German engineering association VDMA .
The company is headquartered in Augsburg , Germany .
2004 - The first Cobot KUKA LBR 3 is released .
In the James Bond film " Die Another Day " , in a scene depicting an ice palace in Iceland , NSA agent Jinx , played by Halle Berry , is threatened by laser-wielding robots .
In the Ron Howard film " The Da Vinci Code " , a KUKA robot hands Tom Hanks " character Robert Langdon a container containing a cryptex .
Skeletons are widely used in computer vision , image analysis , pattern recognition and digital image processing for purposes such as optical character recognition , fingerprint recognition , visual inspection or compression .
In his seminal paper , Harry Blum of the Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratories at Hanscom Air Force Base , in Bedford , Massachusetts , defined a medial axis for computing a skeleton of a shape , using an intuitive model of fire propagation on a grass field , where the field has the form of the given shape .
A line search in the direction psub " k " / sub is then used to find the next point xsub " k " + 1 / sub by minimizing mathf ( \ mathbf { x } _ k + \ gamma \ mathbf { p } _ k ) / math over the scalar math \ gamma 0 .
R adiant _ * 11 : 43 , May 24 , 2005 ( UTC )
This application of computer vision techniques is used in image retrieval systems to organize and locate images of interest from a database .
This method can be regarded as a type of multiclass classification image classification with a very large number of classes - as large as the vocabulary size .
Typically , image analysis in the form of extracted feature vector s and the training annotation words are used by machine learning techniques to attempt to automatically apply annotations to new images .
The first methods learned the correlations between image features and training annotations , then techniques were developed using machine translation to try to translate the textual vocabulary with the ' visual vocabulary ' , or clustered regions known as " blobs " .
The IEEE 1484.12.1 - 2002 Standard for Learning Object Metadata is an internationally recognised open standard ( published by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Standards Association , New York ) for the description of " learning object s .
SWE-LOM is the Swedish LOM profile that is managed by IML at Umeå University as a part of the work with the national standardization group TK450 at Swedish Standards Institute .
In software development , as in the development of " complex computer systems " ( e.g. , artificial intelligence , expert system s , control , simulation , or business software ) an SME is a person who is knowledgeable about the domain being represented ( but often not knowledgeable about the programming technology used to represent it in the system ) .
In decision tree learning , ID3 ( Iterative Dichotomiser 3 ) is an algorithm invented by Ross Quinlan Quinlan , J. R. 1986 .
1 , 1 ( Mar. 1986 ) , 81-106 used to generate a decision tree learning from a dataset .
ID3 is the precursor to the C4.5 algorithm , and is typically used in the machine learning and natural language processing domains .
It uses a Greedy algorithm by selecting the locally best attribute to split the dataset on each iteration .
The ID3 algorithm is used by training on a data set mathS / math to produce a decision tree which is stored in memory .
Entropy in information theory measures how much information is expected to be gained upon measuring a random variable ; as such , it can also be used to quantify the amount to which the distribution of the quantity 's values is unknown .
As such , ID3 is a Greedy algorithm heuristic performing a best-first search for locally optimal entropy values .
C4.5 is an algorithm used to generate a decision tree developed by Ross Quinlan .Quinlan , J. R. C4.5 : " Programs for Machine Learning " .
J48 is an open source Java implementation of the C4.5 algorithm in the Weka data mining tool .
New York : McGraw-Hill , 1969. including ( among many others ) Eubulides , Plato , Cicero , Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel , Angelica Nuzzo , " Vagueness and Meaning Variance in Hegel 's Logic .
Usually the Iranian-born American computer scientist Lotfi A. Zadeh ( 1921-2017 ) is credited with inventing the specific idea of a " fuzzy concept " in his seminal 1965 paper on fuzzy sets , because he gave a formal mathematical presentation of the phenomenon that was widely accepted by scholars .
Lotfi A. Zadeh , " Fuzzy sets .
In 1975 , Lotfi A. Zadeh introduced a distinction between " Type 1 fuzzy sets " without uncertainty and " Type 2 fuzzy sets " with uncertainty , which has been widely accepted .
Lotfi A. Zadeh , " The Concept of a Linguistic Variable and Its Application to Approximate Reasoning-1 , " " Information Sciences " , Vol .
In mathematics and computer science , the gradations of applicable meaning of a fuzzy concept are described in terms of " quantitative " relationships defined by logical operators .
In other cases , the fuzzy systems program falls under artificial intelligence or soft computing .
Lotfi A. Zadeh estimated around 2014 that there were more than 50,000 fuzzy logic-related , patented inventions .
Lotfi A. Zadeh , " Factual Information about the Impact of Fuzzy Logic .
The basic programming techniques for this kind of fuzzy concept mapping and deep learning are by now well-establishedE.g. Mikael Collan , Mario Fedrizzi , Janusz Kacprzyk , " Fuzzy Technology : Present Applications and Future Challenges " .
In a video interview published by " The Guardian " in March 2018 , whistleblower Christopher Wylie called Cambridge Analytica a " full-service propaganda machine " rather than a bona fide data science company .
" Lujan 's figure was based on ProPublica research , which in fact suggested that Facebook may even have 52,000 data points for many Facebook users.Christopher Carbone , " Facebook might have 29,000 data points on you , but Mark Zuckerberg doesn 't really know .
Lotfi A. Zadeh himself confessed that :
" Lotfi A. Zadeh , " Is there a need for fuzzy logic ? , " " Information Sciences " , No. 178 , 2008 , p .
However , Lotfi A. Zadeh claimed that " vagueness connotes insufficient specificity , whereas fuzziness connotes unsharpness of class boundaries .
" Lotfi A. Zadeh , " What is fuzzy logic ? .
Lotfi A. Zadeh said in a 1994 interview that :
Lotfi A. Zadeh rejected such an interpretation , on the ground that in many human endeavours as well as technologies it is highly important to define more exactly " to what extent " something is applicable or true , when it is known that its applicability can vary to some important extent among large populations .
The hypnotherapist Milton H. Erickson noted likewise that the conscious mind and the unconscious normally interact.Ronald A. Havens ( ed .
Lotfi A. Zadeh picked up this point , and drew attention to a " major misunderstanding " about applying fuzzy logic .
Lotfi A. Zadeh , " What is fuzzy logic ? .
FastICA is an efficient and popular algorithm for independent component analysis invented by Aapo Hyvärinen at Helsinki University of Technology .ref name = " Hyvarinen " Like most ICA algorithms , FastICA seeks an orthogonal rotation of prewhitened data , through a fixed-point iteration scheme , that maximizes a measure of non-Gaussianity of the rotated components .
It is most commonly associated with robotics and mobile robots but can be applied to a whole range of circumstances in which a device or machine is operated by a person from a distance .
The 19th century saw many inventors working on remotely operated weapons ( torpedoes ) including prototypes built by John Louis Lay ( 1872 ) , John Ericsson ( 1873 ) , Victor von Scheliha ( 1873 ) , and the first practical wire guided torpedo , the Brennan torpedo , patented by Louis Brennan in 1877.Gray , Edwyn ( 2004 ) .
Annapolis , Maryland : Naval Institute PressRoger Branfill-Cook , Torpedo : The Complete History of the World 's Most Revolutionary Naval Weapon , Naval Institute Press , 2014 , page 45 In 1898 , Nikola Tesla demonstrated a remotely controlled boat with a patented wireless radio guidance system that he tried to market to the United States military , but was turned down.Roger Branfill-Cook , Torpedo : The Complete History of the World 's Most Revolutionary Naval Weapon , Naval Institute Press , 2014 , page 31
These explorations can also be verified by hypothesis testing , data mining , or other analytic methods .
RDF Schema ( Resource Description Framework Schema , variously abbreviated as RDFS , RDF ( S ) , RDF-S , or RDF / S ) is a set of classes with certain properties using the RDF extensible knowledge representation data model , providing basic elements for the description of ontologies , otherwise called RDF vocabularies , intended to structure RDF resource s .
This would include programs such as data analysis and extraction tools , spreadsheets ( e.g. Excel ) , databases ( e.g. Access ) , statistical analysis ( e.g. SAS ) , generalized audit software ( e.g. ACL , Arbutus , EAS ) , business intelligence ( e.g. Crystal Reports and Business Objects ) , etc .
In addition to using data analysis software , the auditor uses CAATs throughout the audit for the following activities while performing data analysis :
The Prewitt operator is used in image processing , particularly within edge detection algorithms .
Originally conceived as a point-and-click adventure game , it was put on developmental hold until Nintendo producer Shigeru Miyamoto gained interest in the title and overhauled its production .
" Chibi-Robo ! " takes place in a 1960s-style United States home and revolves around a tiny , highly advanced robot of the same name Chibi-Robo attempts to revive Giga-Robo by fully charging its massive battery and makes it a goal to find Giga-Robo 's missing leg , but is attacked by spider-like robots called Spydorz .
Director Kenichi Nishi had previous development credits such as " Chrono Trigger " , " Moon : Remix RPG Adventure " and " Incredible Crisis " .
The Nichols plot is a plot used in signal processing and control design , named after American engineer Nathaniel B. Nichols .Isaac M. Howowitz , " Synthesis of Feedback Systems " , Academic Press , 1963 , Lib Congress 63-12033 p .
It is a stochastic gradient descent method in that the filter is only adapted based on the error at the current time .
It was invented in 1960 by Stanford University professor Bernard Widrow and his first Ph.D. student , Ted Hoff .
Adding further to the complexity is the possible need to use object recognition techniques for tracking , a challenging problem in its own right .
OpenCV supports some models from deep learning frameworks like TensorFlow , Torch , PyTorch ( after converting to an ONNX model ) and Caffe according to a defined list of supported layers.formats .
The first alpha version of OpenCV was released to the public at the Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition in 2000 , and five betas were released between 2001 and 2005 .
To support some of the above areas , OpenCV includes a statistical machine learning library that contains :
There are bindings in Python , Java and MATLAB / OCTAVE .
In information retrieval , tf-idf or TFIDF , short for term frequency-inverse document frequency , is a numerical statistic that is intended to reflect how important a word is to a document in a collection or corpus .
It is often used as a weighting factor in searches of information retrieval , text mining , and user modeling .
Variations of the tf-idf weighting scheme are often used by search engine s as a central tool in scoring and ranking a document 's relevance given a user Information retrieval .
tf-idf can be successfully used for stop-words filtering in various subject fields , including automatic summarization and classification .
Karen Spärck Jones ( 1972 ) conceived a statistical interpretation of term-specificity called Inverse Document Frequency ( idf ) , which became a cornerstone of term weighting :
Idf was introduced , as " term specificity , " by Karen Spärck Jones in a 1972 paper .
Although it has worked well as a heuristic , its theoretical foundations have been troublesome for at least three decades afterward , with many researchers trying to find information theory justifications for it .
The Term Frequency and the Inverse Document Frequency can be formulated using Information theory ; it helps to understand why their product have a meaning in terms of joint informational content of a document .
Subsequently , development has been influenced by the work of Geof Bowker , Michel Callon , Paul Feyerabend , Elihu M. Gerson , Bruno Latour , John Law , Karl Popper , Susan Leigh Star , Anselm Strauss , and Lucy Suchman .
Karl Popper called the process " conjectures and refutations , " which although expressing a core insight , has been shown to be too restrictive a characterization by the work of Michel Callon , Paul Feyerabend , Elihu M. Gerson , Mark Johnson , Thomas Kuhn , George Lakoff , Imre Lakatos , Bruno Latour , John Law , Susan Leigh Star , Anselm Strauss , Lucy Suchman , Ludwig Wittgenstein , " etc .
Alan Turing was one of the first to attempt to more precisely characterize " individual " intelligence through the notion of his famous Turing Test .
This paradigm was developed and deepened in the field of Artificial Intelligence .
More recently Marvin Minsky has developed the idea that the mind of an individual human is composed of a society of agents in Society of Mind ( see the analysis by Push Singh ) .
Legal concerns ( " e.g. " , HIPAA , Sarbanes-Oxley , " The Books and Records Rules " in SEC Rule 17a-3 / 4 and " Design Criteria Standard for Electronic Records Management Software Applications " in DOD 5015.2 in the United States ) are leading organizations to store information monotonically forever .
Future systems will provide question answering that will make all this information much more useful .
Modular Audio Recognition Framework ( MARF ) is an open-source research platform and a collection of voice , sound , speech , text and natural language processing ( NLP ) algorithm s written in Java and arranged into a modular and extensible framework that attempts to facilitate addition of new algorithm s .
Their parameters are learned using the EM algorithm .
PLSA has applications in information retrieval and filtering , natural language processing , machine learning from text , and related areas .
In some fields such as signal processing and econometrics it is also termed the Parzen-Rosenblatt window method , after Emanuel Parzen and Murray Rosenblatt , who are usually credited with independently creating it in its current form .
Dr. Sbaitso is an artificial intelligence speech synthesis program released late in 1991 .
The program was designed to showcase the speech synthesis the cards were able to produce , though the quality was far from lifelike .
In computational linguistics , FrameNet is a project housed at the International Computer Science Institute in Berkeley , California which produces an electronic resource based on a theory of meaning called
FrameNet has been used in applications like question answering , paraphrasing , recognizing textual entailment , and information extraction , either directly or by means of Semantic Role Labeling tools .
The fields of robotics and biomechanics constitute the major application areas for inverse dynamics .
Within robotics , inverse dynamics algorithms are used to calculate the torque s that a robot 's motors must deliver to make the robot 's end-point move in the way prescribed by its current task .
A voice-user interface ( VUI ) makes spoken human interaction with computers possible , using speech recognition to understand spoken commands and Question answering , and typically text to speech to play a reply .
Until recently , this area was considered to be artificial intelligence .
Designing a good VUI requires interdisciplinary talents of computer science , linguistics and human factors psychology - all of which are skills that are expensive and hard to come by .
Such applications should streamline the call flows , minimize prompts , eliminate unnecessary iterations and allow elaborate " mixed initiative dialog system , " which enable callers to enter several pieces of information in a single utterance and in any order or combination .
In 2007 , a CNN business article reported that voice command was over a billion dollar industry and that companies like Google and .
The iPhone 4S , iPad 3 , iPad Mini 1G , iPad Air , iPad Pro 1G , iPod Touch 5G and later , all come with a more advanced voice assistant called Siri .
While speech recognition technology has improved considerably in recent years , voice user interfaces still suffer from parsing or transcription errors in which a user 's speech is not interpreted correctly .
Voice user interfaces that interpret and manage conversational state are challenging to design due to the inherent difficulty of integrating complex natural language processing tasks like coreference resolution , named-entity recognition , information retrieval , and dialog management .
Therefore , accurate speech recognition , along with some degree of artificial intelligence on the part of the machine associated with the VUI , would be required .
It is linked to several previous theories , including the works on introspection by Jean Martin Charcot , Alfred Binet , Maine de Biran , the German school of Würzburg ( Watt , , Bühler ) and Albert Burloud , who was Antoine de la Garanderie ' s professor .
The term was coined by Julian Jaynes , who presented the idea in his 1976 book " The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind " , wherein he made the case that a bicameral mentality was the normal and ubiquitous state of the human mind as recently as 3,000 years ago , near the end of the Mediterranean bronze age .
Philip K. Dick , Terrence McKenna , and David Bowie all cited the book as an influence .
Psychiatrist Iain McGilchrist reviews scientific research into the role of the brain 's hemispheres , and cultural evidence , in his book " The Master and His Emissary " .
Philosopher Andy Clark speculates that the ways in which minds deal with narrative ( second-hand information ) and memory ( first-hand perception ) are cognitively indistinguishable .
In signal processing , the cross-covariance is often called cross-correlation and is a measure of similarity of two signal s , commonly used to find features in an unknown signal by comparing it to a known one .
It is a function of the relative time between the signals , is sometimes called the " sliding dot product " , and has applications in pattern recognition and cryptanalysis .
The cross-covariance is also relevant in signal processing where the cross-covariance between two wide-sense stationary random processes can be estimated by averaging the product of samples measured from one process and samples measured from the other ( and its time shifts ) .
The comment about Zabriskie Point by Michelangelo Antonioni is a propaganda .
Jaccard distance is commonly used to calculate an " n " × " n " matrix for Cluster analysis and multidimensional scaling of " n " sample sets .
Prior to the cognitive revolution , behaviorism was the dominant trend in psychology in the United States .
Grants from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation in the 1970s advanced interdisciplinary understanding in the relevant fields and supported the research that led to the field of cognitive neuroscience .
George Miller states that six fields participated in the development of cognitive science : psychology , linguistics , computer science , anthropology , neuroscience , and philosophy , with the first three playing the main roles .
Geometry processing , or mesh processing , is an area of research that uses concepts from applied mathematics , computer science and engineering to design efficient algorithm s for the acquisition , reconstruction , analysis , manipulation , simulation and transmission of complex 3D models .
As the name implies , many of the concepts , data structures , and algorithms are directly analogous to signal processing and image processing .
Geometry processing is a common research topic at SIGGRAPH , the premier computer graphics academic conference , and the main topic of the annual Symposium on Geometry Processing .
It was originally published by Chandler Publishing Company in 1972 ( republished 2000 with foreword by Mary Catherine Bateson ) .
The book begins with a series of metalogues , which take the form of conversations with his daughter Mary Catherine Bateson .
Part II is a collection of anthropological writings , many of which were written while he was married to Margaret Mead .
" His essay on alcoholism examines the alcoholic state of mind , and the methodology of Alcoholics Anonymous within the framework of the then-nascent field of cybernetics .
The Institute has collaborated closely with the Janelia Farm Campus of Howard Hughes Medical Institute , the Allen Institute for Brain Science and the National Institutes of Health to develop better methods of reconstructing neuronal architectures .
MLP utilizes a supervised learning technique called backpropagation for training.Rosenblatt , Frank. x .
In recent developments of deep learning the rectifier linear unit ( ReLU ) is more frequently used as one of the possible ways to overcome the numerical problems related to the sigmoids .
This is an example of supervised learning , and is carried out through backpropagation , a generalization of the least mean squares algorithm in the linear perceptron .
Using gradient descent , the change in each weight is
MLPs were a popular machine learning solution in the 1980s , finding applications in diverse fields such as speech recognition , image recognition , and machine translation software , Neural networks .
) support vector machine s .
Interest in backpropagation networks returned due to the successes of deep learning .
After graduation , on the advice and recommendation of his advisor , Holt Ashley , he got a job Boeing , where he worked on a lunar gravity simulator .
In 1969 , Scheinman invented the Stanford arm ,
Around 1972 , Scheinman was asked by MIT 's Marvin Minsky to design a more compact arm .
While studying at Stanford , Scheinman was awarded a fellowship sponsored by George Devol , the inventor of the Unimate , the first industrial robot .
Scheinman received the Robotic Industries Association ' s Joseph F. Engelberger Robotics Award in 19861990 .
It was founded in 1962 by Joseph F. Engelberger and George Devol and was located in Danbury , Connecticut .
Devol collaborated with Engelberger , who served as president of the company , to engineer and produce an industrial robot under the brand name Unimate .
They introduced their new robot in 1961 at a trade show at Chicago 's Cow Palace .
In 1960 , Devol personally sold the first Unimate robot , which was shipped in 1961 to General Motors .
It was completed in July 2005 by the Manufacturing & Mechatronics Lab of Seoul National University headed by Professor Young-Bong Bang .
This approximation process can also be interpreted as a simple kind of neural network ; this was the context in which they were originally applied to machine learning , in work by David Broomhead and David Lowe in 1988 , : " We would like to thank Professor M.J.D. Powell at the Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics at Cambridge University for providing the initial stimulus for this work .
RBFs are also used as a kernel in support vector machine .
According to Jamieson & Marc Bekoff ( 1993 ) , : Dale Jamieson and Marc Bekoff
To perform such tasks the robot required the application of frame grabbing , image processing , pattern recognition and interpretation or analysis of scene .
The design team of 30 faculty 20 students at UAP consisted of physicist s , physicians , electronic engineering s , computer scientist s , musicians and designers who worked 20 hours daily for six months to complete the project .
Common Logic is published by International Organization for Standardization as " ISO / IEC 24707 : 2007 - Information technology - Common Logic ( CL ) : a framework for a family of logic-based languages .
The book was based on a course of public lectures delivered by Schrödinger in February 1943 , under the auspices of the Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies where he was Director of Theoretical Physics , at Trinity College , Dublin .
The book is based on lectures delivered under the auspices of the Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies , at Trinity College , Dublin , in February 1943 and published in 1944 .
CommerceNet , a nonprofit organization that promotes e-commerce on the Internet , has helped sponsor and promote the technology and support the microformats community in various ways .
She has worked on an unusually wide range of topics ; the citation for her lifetime achievement award from the Association for Psychological Science states that " Her studies on the topics of mental imagery , face recognition , semantic memory , reading , attention , and executive functioning have become classics in the field .
She was one of the founders of the International Neuroethics Society in 2006 .
During the 2011 Consumer Electronics Show , it was announced that the United States government had expressed interest in purchasing HAL suits .
Paul Kay ( born 1934 in New York ) is an emeritus professor of linguistics at the University of California , Berkeley , United States .
He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1981 .
In 1968 , Berlin , Breedlove and Raven studied the botanical ethnography of the Tzeltal Maya people of Chiapas , Mexico .
Originally developed by AMETEK Straza of El Cajon , United States , they were subsequently developed by Perry Tritech .
In 2002 , High Performance Wireless Research and Education Network researchers conducted an expedition to locate the SEALAB II / III habitat located off the Scripps Institution of Oceanography pier in La Jolla , California .
In a more general sense , ASP includes all applications of answer sets to knowledge representation and the use of Prolog-style query evaluation for solving problems arising in these applications .
In natural language processing , dependency-based parsing can be formulated as an ASP problem .
The theory applies the notion of a semantic frame also used in artificial intelligence , which is a collection of facts that specify " characteristic features , attributes , and functions of a denotatum , and its characteristic interactions with things necessarily or typically associated with it .
It has many applications ranging from computed tomography ( CT ) to signal processing .
There are versions of the method that converge to a regularized weighted least squares solution when applied to a system of inconsistent equations and , at least as far as initial behavior is concerned , at a lesser cost than other iterative methods , such as the conjugate gradient method .See and references therein .
This method can be seen as a particular case of stochastic gradient descent .ref name = " Needell Srebro Ward 2014 "
Cluster analysis or cluster analysis involves assigning data points to clusters such that items in the same cluster are as similar as possible , while items belonging to different clusters are as dissimilar as possible .
The fuzzy " c " -means algorithm is very similar to the K-means clustering :
One use is as a pattern recognition technique to analyze gene expression data from microarrays or other technology .
Image segmentation using k-means clustering algorithms has long been used for pattern recognition , object detection , and medical imaging .
According to statements by Lt. Col. Anthony Shaffer and those of four others , Able Danger had identified 2 of 3 al-Qaeda cells active in the 9 / 11 attacks ; the ' Brooklyn cell ' linked to " Blind Sheik " Omar Abdel-Rahman , including September 11 attacks leader Mohamed Atta , and three of the 9 / 11 plot 's other 19 hijackers .
In December 2006 , a sixteen-month investigation by the US Senate Intelligence Committee concluded " Able Danger did not identify Mohamed Atta or any other 9 / 11 hijacker at any time prior to September 11 , 2001 , " and dismissed other assertions that have fueled 9 / 11 conspiracy theories .
The program used data mining techniques to associate open source information with classified information in an attempt to make connections among individual members of terrorist groups as part of its original " intelligence preparation of the battlespace .
According to statements by Lt. Col. Anthony Shaffer and those of four others , Able Danger had identified 2 of 3 Al Qaeda cells active in the 9 / 11 attacks ; the ' Brooklyn cell ' linked to Blind Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman , including September 11 attacks leader Mohamed Atta , and three of the 9 / 11 plot 's other 19 hijackers , as possible members of an al Qaeda cell linked to the 1993 World Trade Center bombing .
He believed that Able Danger identified Mohamed Atta 13 separate times prior to 9 / 11 and that the unit also identified a potential situation in Yemen two weeks prior to the October 12 , 2000 attack on the USS " Cole " .
In his book " Countdown to Terror " , Weldon asserted that an Able Danger chart produced in 1999 identifying 9 / 11 hijackers Mohamed Atta , Marwan al-Shehhi , Khalid al-Mihdhar and Nawaf al-Hazmi had been presented to then-Deputy National Security Advisor Jim Steinberg .
Former chief assistant U.S. attorney Andrew McCarthy and others have asserted that the Able Danger intelligence was suppressed as a result of a policy of forbidding the CIA and FBI to share intelligence known as " the wall .
Mickey Kaus of Slate.com , referring to Tom Maguire 's " Two Attas " theory ,
Kevin Drum , writing for " The Washington Monthly " notes that reports of the precise date at which the information was allegedly passed to the FBI vary considerably .
He was named to the U.S. National Academy of Sciences in 1998.Obituary : Roy Goodwin D 'Andrade .
The first stability condition , leave-one-out cross-validation stability , says that to be stable , the prediction error for each data point when leave-one-out cross validation is used must converge to zero as mathn \ rightarrow \ infty / math .
The amount of overfitting can be tested using cross-validation methods , that split the sample into simulated training samples and testing samples .
" The holder of the copyright on the church 's scriptures , Religious Technology Center , sued in some cases , for instance in " Scientology versus Zenon Panoussis " ( Stockholm , 1998 ) .
A common variant uses a constant-size , small simplex that roughly follows the gradient direction ( which gives Gradient descent ) .
For 17 years he was professor at and director of the former Department of Linguistics at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig , Germany , combined with a post as Distinguished Professor of Linguistics at the University of California , Santa Barbara , where he returned full-time from 1 June 2015 .
In computer science and machine learning , cellular neural networks ( CNN ) ( or cellular nonlinear networks ( CNN ) ) are a parallel computing paradigm similar to neural networks , with the difference that communication is allowed between neighbouring units only .
Typical applications include image processing , analyzing 3D surfaces , solving partial differential equation s , reducing non-visual problems to geometric maps , modelling biological vision and other sensory-motor organs .
One CNN architecture consists of an additional layer , similar to the ANN solution to the problem stated by Marvin Minsky years ago .
This is essentially the same problem Marvin Minsky introduced with respect to the perceptions of the first neural networks In either case , by translating functions from digital logic or look-up table domains into the CNN domain , some functions can be considerably simplified .
Researchers have used back-propagation and genetic algorithms to learn and perform functions .
They have also been used to perform biometric functions such as fingerprint recognition , vein feature extraction , face tracking , and generating visual stimuli via emergent patterns to gauge perceptual resonances .
In information theory and machine learning , information gain is a synonym for " Kullback-Leibler divergence " ; the amount of information gained about a random variable or signal from observing another random variable .
Such a sequence ( which depends on the outcome of the investigation of previous attributes at each stage ) is called a decision tree and applied in the area of machine learning known as decision tree learning .
The institute was founded in 2000 by Patrick Joseph McGovern and Lore Harp McGovern with a gift to MIT that is expected to total $ 350M over 20 years .
The Hutchinson metric can be used to " measure of the discrepancy between two image s for use in fractal image processing .
Depending on definitional boundaries , predictive modelling is synonymous with , or largely overlapping with , the field of machine learning , as it is more commonly referred to in academic or research and development contexts .
Predictive modelling in archaeology gets its foundations from Gordon Willey ' s mid-fifties work in the Virú Valley of Peru.Willey , Gordon R. ( 1953 ) , " Prehistoric Settlement Patterns in the Virú Valley , Peru , " Bulletin 155 .
Predictive modelling is used extensively in analytical customer relationship management and data mining to produce customer-level models that describe the likelihood that a customer will take a particular action .
In 2018 , Banerjee et al. proposed a deep learning model - Probabilistic Prognostic Estimates of Survival in Metastatic Cancer Patients ( PPES-Met ) - for estimating short-term life expectancy ( 3 months ) of the patients by analyzing free-text clinical notes in the electronic medical record , while maintaining the temporal visit sequence .
Orange is an open-source data visualization , machine learning and data mining toolkit .
It features a visual programming front-end for explorative data analysis and interactive data visualization .
Orange is a component-based visual programming software package for data visualization , machine learning , data mining , and data analysis .
Prova is an open source programming language that combines Prolog with Java .
The UMLS was designed and is maintained by the United States National Library of Medicine , is updated quarterly and may be used for free .
The project was initiated in 1986 by Donald A.B. Lindberg , M.D. , then Director of the Library of Medicine , and directed by Betsy Humphreys .
The links among semantic types define the structure of the network and show important relationships between the Cluster analysis and concepts .
A set of Java programs use the lexicon to work through the variations in biomedical texts by relating words by their parts of speech , which can be helpful in web searches or searches through an electronic medical record .
For example , a Information retrieval for " anesthetic " would return the following :
This requires an informed search strategy to be used ( knowledge representation ) .
Sankar Kumar Pal is a Distinguished Scientist and former Director of the Indian Statistical Institute , Kolkata , India .
He is a computer scientist with an international reputation on fuzzy neural network , soft computing , and Artificial intelligence .
SK Pal studied at the University of Calcutta for his BSc in Physics ( 1969 ) , BTech ( 1972 ) and MTech ( 1974 ) .
He received a PhD in Radio Physics and Electronics from the Rajabazar Science College campus of University of Calcutta in 1979 as a student of Indian Statistical Institute , and another PhD in Electrical Engineering along with Diploma of the Imperial College from Imperial College , University of London , in 1982 .
He worked at the University of California , Berkeley and University of Maryland , College Park from 1986-1987 as Fulbright Fellow , NASA Johnson Space Center from 1990-1992 and in 1994 , as NRC Senior Research Associate , Distinguished Visitor of IEEE Computer Society ( USA ) for Asia-Pacific Region in 1997 , and US Naval Research Laboratory , Washington DC in 2004 as a Visiting Scientist .
His areas of research interests include fuzzy set s and uncertainty analysis , artificial neural network s for artificial intelligence , pattern recognition , image processing , data mining , genetic algorithm s , rough set s , and soft computing .
For the case of a general base space math ( Y , \ mathcal { B } , \ nu ) / math ( " i.e. " a base space which is not countable ) , one typically considers the relative entropy .
The Shirley Ryan AbilityLab ( formerly the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago ) , University of California at Berkeley , MIT , Stanford University , and University of Twente in the Netherlands are the researching leaders in biomechatronics .
MIT and the University of Twente are both working to analyze these movements .
Groups at the University of Twente and University of Malaya are making drastic steps in this department .
In computer science and electrical engineering , Lloyd 's algorithm , also known as Voronoi iteration or relaxation , is an algorithm named after Stuart P. Lloyd for finding evenly spaced sets of points in subsets of Euclidean space s and partitions of these subsets into well-shaped and uniformly sized convex cells .
Like the closely related k-means clustering algorithm , it repeatedly finds the centroid of each set in the partition and then re-partitions the input according to which of these centroids is closest .
As such , it is extensively used in data compression techniques in information theory .
The award is funded by the Robert J. Glushko and Pamela Samuelson Foundation .
Additionally , a local search combining a ( multi-dimensional ) quadratic interpolant of the function and line search es can be used to augment performance of the algorithm ( " MCS with local search " ) ; in this case the " plain " MCS is used to provide the starting ( initial ) points .
The Visualization Toolkit ( VTK ) is an open-source software system for 3D computer graphics , image processing and visualization .
VTK is distributed under the Open Source Initiative -approved BSD 3-clause License .
VTK consists of a C + + class library and several interpreted interface layers including Tcl / Tk , Java , and Python .
ECLiPSe interfaces to external solvers , in particular the COIN-OR , CPLEX , Gurobi and Xpress-MP linear and mixed-integer programming
or via high-level interfaces to Java and Tcl .
Defeasible reasoning finds its fullest expression in jurisprudence , ethics and moral philosophy , epistemology , pragmatics and conversational conventions in linguistics , constructivist decision theories , and in knowledge representation and planning in artificial intelligence .
John Maynard Keynes wrote his dissertation on non-demonstrative reasoning , and influenced the thinking of Ludwig Wittgenstein on this subject .
About this time , researchers in artificial intelligence became interested in non-monotonic reasoning and its semantics .
Hayes has been an active , prolific , and influential figure in Artificial Intelligence for over five decades .
In the middle of the 1990s , while serving as president of the AAAI , Hayes began a series of attacks on critics of AI , mostly phrased in an ironic light , and ( together with his colleague Kenneth Ford ) invented an award named after Simon Newcomb to be given for the most ridiculous argument " disproving " the possibility of AI .
The Newcomb Awards are announced in the " AI Magazine " published by AAAI .
At the turn of the century he became active in the Semantic Web community , contributing substantially ( perhaps solely ) to the revised semantics of RDF known as RDF-Core , one of the three designers ( along with Peter Patel-Schneider and Ian Horrocks ) of the Web Ontology Language semantics , and most recently contributed to SPARQL .
Hayes has served as secretary of AISB , chairman and trustee of IJCAI , associate editor of " Artificial Intelligence " , a governor of the Cognitive Science Society and president of American Association for Artificial Intelligence .
Hayes is a charter Fellow of AAAI and of the Cognitive Science Society
According to his website , his current research interests include " knowledge representation and automatic reasoning , especially the representation of space and time ; the semantic web ; ontology design ; and the philosophical foundations of Artificial intelligence and computer science .
Raymond Reiter provided the following example : a coin is tossed over a checkboard , and the result is that the coin is either on a black area , or on a white area , or both .
In computer science , higher-order abstract syntax ( abbreviated HOAS ) is a technique for the representation of abstract syntax tree s for languages with variable binders .
The AGFL-project aims at the development of a technology for Natural language processing available under the GNU GPL .
Edge enhancement is an image processing filter that enhances the edge contrast of an image or video in an attempt to improve its acutance ( apparent sharpness ) .
Notable previous columnists include Cory Doctorow , Lee David Zlotoff , Mr. Jalopy , and Bruce Sterling .
" Makes founder and publisher is O 'Reilly co-founder Dale Dougherty along with Sherry Huss , Vice President Make ; the executive editor was Mike Senese .
In Germany , Austria and Switzerland ( DACH ) the Heise Zeitschriften Verlag was under license to publish a German-language edition of " Make " independently of the English-language one .
" Make : television " was a television show produced by Twin Cities Public Television and hosted by John Edgar Park
A distinction is usually made between the kind of high level symbols that directly correspond with objects in the world , such as nowikidog / nowiki and nowikitail / nowiki and the more complex " symbols " that are present in a machine like a neural network .
Two lines of evidence suggested to Allen Newell and Herbert A. Simon that " symbol manipulation " was the essence of both human and machine intelligence : the development of artificial intelligence programs and psychological experiments on human beings .
First , in the early decades of AI research there were a number of very successful programs that used high level symbol processing , such as Newell and Herbert A. Simon ' s General Problem Solver or Terry Winograd ' s SHRDLU .
John Searle ' s Chinese room argument , presented in 1980 , attempted to show that a program ( or any physical symbol system ) could not be said to " understand " the symbols that it uses ; that the symbols themselves have no meaning or semantic content , and so the machine can never be truly intelligent from symbol manipulation alone .
In the middle eighties , Rodney Brooks of MIT was able to build robots that had superior ability to move and survive without the use of symbolic reasoning at all .
Brooks ( and others , such as Hans Moravec ) discovered that our most basic skills of motion , survival , perception , balance and so on did not seem to require high level symbols at all , that in fact , the use of high level symbols was more complicated and less successful .
Astrid M. Rosenthal-von der Pütten of University of Duisburg-Essen conducted research on how characteristics of robots determine responses from humans through an online web poll .
Data farming differs from Data mining , as the following metaphors indicate :
The teams of data farmers are assigned a specific area of study , such as robotics , homeland security , and disaster relief .
Data mining is a particular data analysis technique that focuses on statistical modeling and knowledge discovery for predictive rather than purely descriptive purposes , while business intelligence covers data analysis that relies heavily on aggregation , focusing mainly on business information .. All of the above are varieties of data analysis .
In computer graphics and computer vision , image-based modeling and rendering ( IBMR ) methods rely on a set of two-dimensional images of a scene to generate a three-dimensional model and then render some novel views of this scene .
It is a voice-activated Machine translation application that operates in four languages Japanese , English , Korean , and Chinese ( Mandarin ) .
While originally sold in and designed for the Japan ese market for Japanese users , its translation function operates between all four languages .
The project is part of the Anima Machina program at MIT - a program that was developed by Assistant Professor of Media Arts and Sciences and Director of the Robotic Life Group Cynthia Breazeal .
The ANC differs from other corpora of English because it is richly annotated , including different part of speech annotations ( Penn tags , CLAWS5 and CLAWS7 tags ) , shallow parsing , and annotations for several types of named entities .
An articulated robot is a robot with rotary joint s ( e.g. a legged robot or an industrial robot ) .
In 2010 , producer Teddy Riley claimed that the processing of Michael Jackson ' s voice with Melodyne caused fans to question the authenticity of the voice on the posthumous album " Michael " .
The United Kingdom philosopher Roy Bhaskar , who is closely associated with the philosophical movement of critical realism writes :
Rumelhart 's models of semantic cognition and specific knowledge in a diversity of learned domains using initially non-hierarchical neuron-like processing units continue to interest scientists in the fields of artificial intelligence , anthropology , information science , and decision science .
In computer engineering and electrical engineering , bit banging is slang for any method of data transmission which employs software as a substitute for dedicated hardware to generate transmitted signals or process received signals .
Semi-supervised learning is an approach to machine learning that combines a small amount of labeled data with a large amount of unlabeled data during training .
Semi-supervised learning falls between unsupervised learning ( with no labeled training data ) and supervised learning ( with only labeled training data ) .
This is a special case of the smoothness assumption and gives rise to feature learning with clustering algorithms .
In addition to the standard hinge loss math ( 1-yf ( x ) ) _ + / math for labeled data , a loss function math ( 1- | f ( x ) | ) _ + / math is introduced over the unlabeled data by letting mathy = \ operatorname { sign } { f ( x ) } / math .
Co-training is an extension of self-training in which multiple classifiers are trained on different ( ideally disjoint ) sets of features and generate labeled examples for one another .
Examples are principal component analysis and discriminant analysis , and the quartimax and oblimax methods in factor analysis .
The ELROB is not a competition , like the US DARPA Grand Challenge , but a pure demonstration of what European robotics is able to achieve today .
The C-ELROB 2009 took place in Oulu , Finland , 15-17 June .
The area of the trials was a former zoo and a part of a public forest near the University of Oulu .
Additionally , all points of interest and the intruders in the " Camp Security " scenario were marked with ERICards , because computer vision was no focus of the trials .
The military ELROB 2010 took place from June 17 to 20 2010 on the army training area near Hammelburg in Germany .
The military ELROB 2012 took place from September 24 to 28 2012 on the training area of the Swiss Army near Thun in Switzerland .
Speech Application Language Tags ( SALT ) is an XML -based markup language that is used in HTML and XHTML pages to add speech recognition capabilities to web-based applications .
Attempts have also been made in the area of artificial intelligence research to create smaller , explicit , new proofs of mathematical theorems from the bottom up using machine reasoning techniques such as heuristic search .
In 2004 , Suranga Chandratillake , former US chief technology officer of Autonomy Corporation , founded Blinkx as a toolbar for web search , specializing in video .
RhythmOne 's database was initially set up by Vladimir Bogdanov to hold the information of Erlewine 's many lists .
In probability theory , the multi-armed bandit problem ( sometimes called the " K " - This is a classic reinforcement learning problem that exemplifies the exploration & ndash ; exploitation tradeoff dilemma .
This is known as the " exploitation vs. exploration tradeoff " in machine learning .
Originally considered by Allied scientists in World War II , it proved so intractable that , according to Peter Whittle , the problem was proposed to be dropped over Germany so that German scientists could also waste their time on it .
All those strategies have in common a Greedy algorithm behavior where the " best " lever ( based on previous observations ) is always pulled except when a ( uniformly ) random action is taken .
IMDb originated with a Usenet posting entitled " Those Eyes , " by the British film fan and computer programmer Col Needham , { { cite newsgroup
The website was originally Perl -based , but IMDb no longer discloses what software it uses for reasons of security .
Due to international licensing restrictions , the service currently is only available in the United States as of 2019 .
PMML provides a way for analytic applications to describe and exchange predictive models produced by data mining and machine learning algorithms .
It supports common models such as logistic regression and other feedforward neural network s .
The development of formal logic played a big role in the field of automated reasoning , which itself led to the development of artificial intelligence .
Median filtering is very widely used in digital image processing because , under certain conditions , it preserves edges while removing noise ( but see discussion below ) , also having applications in signal processing .
His students include Lynn Cooper , Leda Cosmides , Rob Fish , Jennifer Freyd , George Furnas , Carol L. Krumhansl , Daniel Levitin , Michael McBeath and Geoffrey Miller .
In 1997 , Shepard was one of the founders of the Kira Institute .
According to the American Psychological Association , " nonmetric multidimensional scaling .. has provided the social sciences with a tool of enormous power for uncovering metric structures from ordinal data on similarities .
In signal processing , the energy mathE _ s / math of a continuous-time signal " x " ( " t " ) is defined as the area under the squared magnitude of the considered signal i.e. , mathematically
It was extended by Murray Shanahan and Rob Miller in the 1990s .
A standard test image is a digital image file used across different institutions to test image processing and image compression algorithms .
Cognitive robotics views animal cognition as a starting point for the development of robotic information processing , as opposed to more traditional Artificial Intelligence techniques .
From the standpoint of digital signal processing , the scaling of raster graphics is a two-dimensional example of sample-rate conversion , the conversion of a discrete signal from a sampling rate ( in this case the local sampling rate ) to another .
A variety of techniques have been applied for this , including optimization techniques with regularization terms and the use of machine learning from examples .
This method uses machine learning for more detailed images such as photographs and complex artwork .
Machine learning -based methods often require very large data sets as training data to build useful models. or purely statistical methods .
Developments in biomedical text mining have incorporated identification of biological entities with named entity recognition , or NER .
In classification , document categories are specified manually , These two tasks are representative of Supervised learning and Unsupervised learning methods , respectively , yet the goal of both is to produce subsets of documents based on their distinguishing features .
Methods for biomedical document clustering have relied upon K-means clustering .
Information extraction , is the process of automatically identifying structured information from unstructured or partially structured text .
The majority are results of the word2vec model developed by Mikolov " et al " or variants of word2vec .
SwellShark uses Apache Spark data streaming , a NoSQL database , and basic machine learning methods to build predictive models from scientific articles .
He then held a dual position as a Research Associate in Zoology at the University of the Witwatersrand and the University of Washington from 1975 to 1976 .
After this he was a Senior Research Officer at the South Africa nowiki / n National Research Institute for the Mathematical Sciences from 1976 to 1977 .
Other implementations of physical computing include speech recognition , which senses and interprets sound waves via microphones or other soundwave sensing devices , and computer vision , which applies algorithms to a rich stream of video data typically sensed by some form of camera .
Both motion capture and gesture recognition are fields that rely on computer vision to work their magic .
The array 's hydrophones can be used to detect sound sources , but the real value of the array is that the signal processing technique of beamforming and Fourier analysis can be used not only to calculate the distance and the direction of a sound source , but also to identify the type of ship by the distinctive , acoustic signature of its machinery noises .
A special kind of classification rule is binary classification , for problems in which there are only two classes .
Classification can be thought of as two separate problems - binary classification and multiclass classification .
Binary classification methods include probit regression and logistic regression .
The extension of this concept to non-binary classifications yields the confusion matrix .
In computer vision and image processing a common assumption is that sufficiently small image regions can be characterized as locally one-dimensional , e.g. , in terms of lines or edges .
A knowledge model uses knowledge representation to represent the artifacts of the design process ( as well as the process itself ) rather than or in addition to conventional programming and database techniques .
In 2006 , the Object Management Group released a KBE services RFP document and requested feedback .
In 2009 , " G-Force " became the first film in Disney Digital 3-D from producer Jerry Bruckheimer .
Huglin worked with Jim Henson on the design and uses of the robotic mit controller for his experimental television series " Fraggle Rock .
The lectures are organized by the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique as part of its effort to promote interdisciplinary research in cognitive science in France .
Besides the CNRS , sponsors include the École Normale Supérieure and the School for Advanced Studies in the Social Sciences .
The Institut Jean Nicod ( IJN ) is an interdisciplinary research center based in Paris , France .
The system thus offers a solution to the ' plasticity / stability ' problem , i.e. the problem of acquiring new knowledge without disrupting existing knowledge that is also called incremental learning .
The basic ART system is an unsupervised learning model .
Denso Wave is a subsidiary that produces automatic identification products ( bar-code reader s and related products ) , industrial robot s and programmable logic controller s .
They are noted for creating the two dimensional QR code , are a member of the Japan Robot Association and support the ORiN standard .
Indy is written in Java and therefore runs on most modern operating system s .
Mehler was Emeritus at the École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales , where he directed the Laboratoire de Sciences Cognitives et Psycholinguistique ( LSCP ) ; he was also the head of the " Language , Cognition and Development lab " at the International School for Advanced Studies ( SISSA ) in Trieste ( Italy ) .
In 2001 , Mehler was elected a foreign honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences , and in 2003 , he was elected a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science .
2 The program was rewritten in Java beginning in 1998 .
Spike Jonze has cited ALICE as the inspiration for his academy award-winning film Her , in which a human falls in love with a chatbot .
SSIM is designed to improve on traditional methods such as peak signal-to-noise ratio ( PSNR ) and mean squared error ( MSE ) .
The 2004 SSIM paper has been cited over 20,000 times according to Google Scholar , It also received the IEEE Signal Processing Society Sustained Impact Award for 2016 , indicative of a paper having an unusually high impact for at least 10 years following its publication .
The foundation is a cooperative partner of the Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich and its researchers collaborate with the faculties of experimental and developmental psychology , philosophy , and medicine .
R adiant & lt ; / font 16 : 43 , 15 November 2005 ( UTC )
CRISP-DM breaks the process of data mining into six major phases :
While competing methods such as gradient descent for constrained optimization require a projection step back to the feasible set in each iteration , the Frank-Wolfe algorithm only needs the solution of a linear problem over the same set in each iteration , and automatically stays in the feasible set .
The iterates of the algorithm can always be represented as a sparse convex combination of the extreme points of the feasible set , which has helped to the popularity of the algorithm for sparse greedy optimization in machine learning and signal processing problems ,
If the feasible set is given by a set of linear constraints , then the subproblem to be solved in each iteration becomes a linear programming .
A production system ( or production rule system ) is a computer program typically used to provide some form of artificial intelligence , which consists primarily of a set of rules about behavior but it also includes the mechanism necessary to follow those rules as the system responds to states of the world .
Those rules , termed productions , are a basic knowledge representation found useful in automated planning , expert systems and action selection .
A Santa Claus machine , named after the folkloric Santa Claus , is a hypothetical machine that is capable of creating any required object or structure out of any given material .
An autonomous Santa Claus machine would presumably require a high level of artificial intelligence , though for small projects , autonomous behavior is probably not necessary .
It needs to Object recognition , recognize and locate humans and further emotion recognition .
Most methods intend to build a 3D model through Computer vision of the environment .
In this matter , Natural language processing is concerned with the interactions between computers and human ( natural ) languages , in particular how to program computers to process and analyze large amounts of natural language data .
Industrial robot s have been implemented to collaborate with humans to perform industrial manufacturing tasks .
Computer science has contributed extensively through the study of algorithms , notably in computational geometry .
This reflects ( and is reflected in ) the use of the term spatial analysis within the Open Geospatial Consortium ( Open Geospatial Consortium ) " simple feature specifications .
In computer vision and image processing , a feature is a piece of information which is relevant for solving the computational task related to a certain application .
This is the same sense as feature in machine learning and pattern recognition generally , though image processing has a very sophisticated collection of features .
When features are defined in terms of local neighborhood operations applied to an image , a procedure commonly referred to as " feature extraction " , one can distinguish between feature detection approaches that produce local decisions whether there is a feature of a given type at a given image point or not , and those who produce non-binary data as result .
In 1978 , Deering received his bachelor 's degree , and in 1981 his PhD , in computer science from the University of California , Berkeley , and is an alumnus of the Berkeley Artificial Intelligence Research ( BAIR ) Computer Science Division , UC Berkeley .
Finally there are objections similar to those against artificial intelligence .
If nothing else , such ontologies are implied by machine translation , used when people cannot practically communicate .
It includes an upper ontology , created by the IEEE working group P1600.1 ( originally by Ian Niles and Adam Pease ) .
WordNet , a freely available database originally designed as a semantic network based on psycholinguistic principles , was expanded by addition of definitions and is now also viewed as a dictionary .
It has been widely used in Natural language processing research .
YAMATO is developed by Riichiro Mizoguchi , formerly at the Institute of Scientific and Industrial Research of the University of Osaka , and now at the Japan Advanced Institute of Science and Technology .
A multiline optical-character reader , or MLOCR , is a type of mail sorting machine that uses optical character recognition ( OCR ) technology to determine how to route mail through the postal system .
An example is bicubic interpolation , widely used in image processing for resizing images .
This article describes an alleged field of Artificial intelligence which is not generally accepted .
The Bridgestone rubber company ( Japan ) commercialized the idea in the 1980s under the name of Rubbertuators .
In 2017 , such a device was presented by Bridgestone and the Tokyo Institute of Technology , five to ten times higher than for conventional electric motors and hydraulic cylinders .
Google Translate is a free multilingual statistical machine translation and neural machine translation service developed by Google , to translate text and websites from one language into another .
Launched in April 2006 as a statistical machine translation service , it used United Nations and European Parliament documents and transcripts to gather linguistic data .
Originally Google Translate was released as a statistical machine translation service .
In November 2016 , Google transitioned its translating method to a system called neural machine translation .
Some less widely spoken languages use the open-source eSpeak synthesizer for their speech ; producing a robotic , awkward voice that may be difficult to understand .
Google Translate recognises the text from the image using optical character recognition ( OCR ) technology and gives the translation .
To acquire this huge amount of linguistic data , Google used United Nations and European Parliament documents and transcripts .
By detecting patterns in documents that have already been translated by human translators , Google Translate makes artificial intelligence as to what an appropriate translation should be .
From October 2007 , Google Translate used proprietary , in-house technology based on statistical machine translation instead , before transitioning to neural machine translation .
Google Translate 's neural machine translation system uses a large end-to-end artificial neural network that attempts to perform deep learning , in particular , long short-term memory networks .
He is currently professor of Psychology and Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University .
He was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the National Academy of Sciences and has received a series of awards :
It is an inverse measure of the explanatory power of math \ widehat { g } , / math and can be used in the process of cross-validation of an estimated model .
Hassabis began his computer games career at Bullfrog Productions , first level designing on " Syndicate " and then at 17 co-designing and lead programming on the 1994 game " Theme Park " , with the games designer Peter Molyneux .
Since the Google acquisition , the company has notched up a number of significant achievements , perhaps the most notable being the creation of AlphaGo , a program that defeated world champion Lee Sedol at the complex game of Go .
XOR is a logical operator that is commonly used in data mining and machine learning as an example of a function that is not linearly separable .
A machine learning algorithm would need to discover or approximate the XOR function in order to accurately predict Y using information about X1 and X2 .
Decision tree learning , neural networks , or a naive Bayes classifier could be used in combination with measures of model quality such as balanced accuracy
One approach is to estimate the generalizability of a model to independent datasets using methods such as cross-validation .
Pandora ( also known as Pandora Media or Pandora Radio ) is an American music streaming and automated Recommender system internet radio service powered by the Music Genome Project and headquartered in Oakland , California .
In 2000 , Will Glaser , Jon Kraft and Tim Westergren founded the company as Savage Beast Technologies .
First , SoundExchange collects content fees on behalf of labels or artists on the recording themselves .
Because of the passage of DMCA in 1998 that increased fees and asked for licensing guarantees , the Pandora service was only available in Australia , New Zealand and the United States , { { cite news
If an agreement between Pandora and SoundExchange had not been reached , it could have meant the end of Pandora .
" We 're losing money as it is , " said Tim Westergren .
In statistical analysis of time series and in signal processing , directional symmetry is a statistical measure of a model ' s performance in predicting the direction of change , positive or negative , of a time series from one time period to the next .
A learning automaton is one type of machine learning algorithm studied since 1970s .
With respect to the field of reinforcement learning , learning automata are characterized as policy iterators .
Another example for policy iterators are evolutionary algorithm s .
The " Journal of Experimental Psychology " was a bimonthly peer-reviewed academic journal published by American Psychological Association .
It also created flexible intelligent AGV applications , designing the Motivity control system used by RMT Robotics to develop its ADAM iAGV ( Self-Guided Vehicle ) , used for complex pick and place operations , in conjunction with gantry systems and industrial robot arms , used in first-tier auto supply factories to move products from process to process in non-linear layouts .
If the signal is further ergodic , all sample paths exhibits the same time-average and thus mathR _ x ^ { n / T _ 0 } ( \ tau ) = \ widehat { R } _ x ^ { n / T _ 0 } ( \ tau ) / math in mean square error sense .
Example of skills that are targeted by learning algorithms include sensorimotor skills such as locomotion , grasping , active Object recognition , as well as interactive skills such as joint manipulation of an object with a human peer , and linguistic skills such as the grounded and situated meaning of human language .
Robot learning can be closely related to adaptive control , reinforcement learning as well as developmental robotics which considers the problem of autonomous lifelong acquisition of repertoires of skills .
While machine learning is frequently used by computer vision algorithms employed in the context of robotics , these applications are usually not referred to as " robot learning .
The database gathers new information about tasks as robots perform them , by searching the Internet , interpreting natural language text , images , and videos , object recognition as well as interaction .
The project is led by Ashutosh Saxena at Stanford University .
The project brings together researchers from five major universities in Germany , the Netherlands and Spain and is backed by the European Union .
During her time at UMass Amherst , she has taught numerous students who would become notable linguists including Gennaro Chierchia and Irene Heim .
Prof. Partee has received various honors , including the presidency of the Linguistic Society of America ( 1986 ) , In 2020 she received the Benjamin Franklin Medal ( Franklin Institute ) .
At MIT he worked initially with Peter Elias , who was interested in information theory and image coding , and then with William F. Schreiber .
He is also exploring the use of high-performance computing and big data to develop better techniques for deep learning .
He is a Bren Professor in Information & Computer science , Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences , University of California , Irvine .
He graduated with a bachelor 's degree from Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology , Nagpur , India and has a Ph.D. from Indian Institute of Technology , Kharagpur , India .
He served as a professor of computer science and engineering at the University of Michigan , Ann Arbor and the University of California , San Diego ; in each case he founded and directed artificial intelligence and visual information systems labs .
He has been elected a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery ( ACM ) , the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers ( IEEE ) , the International Association for Pattern Recognition ( IAPR ) , the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence ( AAAI ) , American Association for Advancement of Science ( AAAS ) , and the Society for Optics and Photonics Technology ( SPIE ) .
Measures such as Precision and recall , commonly used in the field of Information retrieval , are typical ways of quantifying the response of a speech analytics search system .
Most teams reside in the United States , with Canada , China , Mexico , Israel , Turkey and Australia contributing significant numbers of teams .
FIRST was founded in 1989 by inventor and entrepreneur Dean Kamen , with inspiration and assistance from physicist and MIT professor emeritus Woodie Flowers .
3,647 teams from 28 countries competed in 2018 Power Up .
A movie adaptation directed by Michael Bacall is being produced .
The February 25 , 2020 episode of the ABC sitcom Black-ish features recurring character , Jack Johnson , joining a FIRST team -- and a cameo by Dean Kamen .
Spatial-temporal reasoning is an area of Artificial Intelligence which draws from the fields of computer science , cognitive science , and cognitive psychology .
The most prominent spatial calculi are mereotopological calculi , Andrew U. Frank ' s cardinal direction calculus , Freksa 's double cross calculus , Egenhofer and Franzosa 's 4- and 9-intersection calculi , Ligozat 's flip-flop calculus , various region connection calculi ( RCC ) , and the Oriented Point Relation Algebra .
Agent Communication Language ( ACL ) , proposed by the Foundation for Intelligent Physical Agents ( FIPA ) , is a proposed standard language for agent communications .
Both rely on speech act theory developed by John Searle in the 1960s and enhanced by Terry Winograd and Flores in the 1970s .
Notable implementations are JPEG 2000 , DjVu and ECW for still images , CineForm , and the BBC 's Dirac .
Cliff overlooking the Jamison Valley in the Blue Mountains , New South Wales , Australia .
As such , " Homo sapiens " create emergent organization s beyond the individual - structures that range from dyads , families , and groups to cities , civilizations , and cultures .
The international , interdisciplinary Society for social neuroscience ( CA ) .
In digital recording , pitch shifting is accomplished through digital signal processing .
Voice artist Mel Blanc used pitch shifting techniques to create the voices of Tweety and Daffy Duck .
One notable early practitioner of pitch shifting in music is Chuck Berry , who used the technique to make his voice sound younger .
The famous bass intro to the song " Seven Nation Army " by The White Stripes , is the result of guitarist Jack White playing a 6 string guitar through a pitch shifting effects pedal set to an octave below .
In the single " Diane Young " by Vampire Weekend , the lead singer Ezra Koenig makes use of a pitch shifter in the chorus .
Conceptual approaches to sample-rate conversion include : converting to an analog continuous signal , then re-sampling at the new rate , or Digital signal processing the values of the new samples directly from the old samples .
In machine learning , kernel methods are a class of algorithms for pattern analysis , whose best known member is the support vector machine ( SVM ) .
The general task of pattern analysis is to find and study general types of relations ( for example Cluster analysis , ranking s , principal components , correlation s , classifications ) in datasets .
They rose to great prominence with the popularity of the support vector machine ( SVM ) in the 1990s , when the SVM was found to be competitive with neural networks on tasks such as handwriting recognition .
Application areas of kernel methods are diverse and include geostatistics , kriging , inverse distance weighting , 3D reconstruction , bioinformatics , chemoinformatics , information extraction and handwriting recognition .
John Searle formulated the " Chinese room argument " in order to disprove computationalism .
The journal covers all areas of the biobehavioral and cognitive science s ( psychology , neuroscience , behavioral biology , cognitive science , artificial intelligence , linguistics , philosophy ) and articles are judged by four or more referees to be of sufficient importance and interdisciplinary scope to merit Open Peer Commentary .
" Psyche " was an online peer-reviewed academic journal covering studies on consciousness and its relation to the brain from perspectives provided by the disciplines of cognitive science , philosophy , psychology , physics , neuroscience , artificial intelligence , and anthropology .
One such example lies in the area of computer vision .
Vasant G. Honavar is an India n born United States computer scientist , and artificial intelligence , machine learning , big data , data science , causality , knowledge representation , bioinformatics and health informatics researcher and educator .
Vasant Honavar was born at Poona , India in 1960 to Bhavani G. and Gajanan N. Honavar .
He received his early education at the Vidya Vardhaka Sangha High School and M.E.S. College in Bangalore , India .
He received a B.E. in electronics engineering from B.M.S. College of Engineering in Bangalore , India in 1982 , when it was affiliated with Bangalore University , an M.S. in electrical and computer engineering in 1984 from Drexel University , and an M.S. in computer science in 1989 , and a Ph.D. in 1990 , respectively , from the University of Wisconsin-Madison , where he studied Artificial Intelligence and worked with Leonard Uhr .
In 2013 , Honavar joined the faculty of Penn State College of Information Sciences and Technology for his distinguished research contributions and leadership in data science .
Honavar is known for his research contributions in artificial intelligence , machine learning , data mining , knowledge representation , neural networks , semantic web , big data analytics , and bioinformatics and computational biology .
During 1990-2013 , Honavar was a professor of computer science at Iowa State University where he led the Artificial Intelligence Research Laboratory which he founded in 1990 .
Honavar has held visiting professorships at Carnegie Mellon University , the University of Wisconsin-Madison , and at the Indian Institute of Science .
Multi-core processors are widely used across many application domains , including general-purpose , embedded , network , digital signal processing ( DSP ) , and graphics ( GPU ) .
... Anant Agarwal , founder and chief executive of startup Tilera , took the opposing view .
In digital signal processing the same trend applies : Texas Instruments has the three-core TMS320C6488 and four-core TMS320C5441 , Freescale the four-core MSC8144 and six-core MSC8156 ( and both have stated they are working on eight-core successors ) .
Existing humanoid robot systems such as ASIMO and QRIO use many motors to achieve locomotion .
Well publicized by journalists and perceived as a success , the experiment did encourage governments to invest in computational linguistics .
There are two types of Markov models ; the visible Markov model , and the hidden Markov model or HMM .
YouTube was founded by Steve Chen , Chad Hurley , and Jawed Karim , who were all early employees of PayPal .
On March 18 , 2020 , Thierry Breton , a European commissioner in charge of digital policy of the European Union urged streaming services including YouTube to limit their services .
In a statement to the " Financial Times " in June 2014 , Robert Kyncl confirmed that YouTube would block the content of labels who do not negotiate deals to be included in the paid service " to ensure that all content on the platform is governed by its new contractual terms .
On September 28 , 2016 , YouTube named Lyor Cohen , the co-founder of 300 Entertainment and former Warner Music Group executive , the Global Head of Music .
YouTube announced the project in September 2016 at an event in India .
The video starred several YouTube celebrities , including Antoine Dodson .
Observing that face-to-face communication of the type that online videos convey has been " fine-tuned by millions of years of evolution , " TED curator Chris Anderson referred to several YouTube contributors and asserted that " what Johannes Gutenberg did for writing , online video can now do for face-to-face communication .
The anti-bullying It Gets Better Project expanded from a single YouTube video directed to discouraged or suicidal LGBT teens ,
The decision was criticized by the Electronic Frontier Foundation , which called the court ruling " a setback to privacy rights .
In October 2010 , U.S. Congressman Anthony Weiner urged YouTube to remove from its website videos of imam Anwar al-Awlaki .
In January 2018 , YouTube creator Logan Paul faced criticism for a video he had uploaded from a trip to Japan , where he encountered a body of a suicide death in the Aokigahara forest .
Alex Jones , known for right-wing conspiracy theories , had built a massive audience on YouTube .
YouTube will employ machine learning to find videos that they believe are clearly " made for kids " and automatically mark them as such , but will not help or advise content creators for videos that fall into unclear categories , as this constitutes legal advice .
Thrun was born in 1967 in Solingen , Germany ( former West Germany ) , the son of Winfried and Kristin ( Grüner ) Thrun .
He completed his " Vordiplom " ( intermediate examination ) in computer science , economics , and medicine at the University of Hildesheim in 1988 .
At the University of Bonn , he completed a " Diplom " ( first degree ) in 1993 and a Ph.D. ( " summa cum laude " ) in 1995 in computer science and statistics .
In 1994 , he started the University of Bonn 's Rhino project together with his doctoral thesis advisor Armin B. Cremers .
In 1997 Thrun and his colleagues Wolfram Burgard and Dieter Fox developed the world 's first robotic tour guide in the Deutsches Museum Bonn ( 1997 ) .
He contributed to the area of probabilistic robotics , a field that marries statistics and robotics .
In the fall of 2005 , Thrun published a textbook entitled " Probabilistic Robotics " together with his long-term co-workers Dieter Fox and Wolfram Burgard .
DUAL is developed by a team at the New Bulgarian University led by Boicho Kokinov .
Prior to that , Kosslyn was Founding Dean and Chief Academic Officer of the Minerva Schools at KGI ( the Keck Graduate Institute ) .
He went to Harvard in large part because of an impassioned letter he received from a first-year graduate student , Steven Pinker , who was seeking an advisor .
As a platform , LinguaStream provides an extensive Java API .
He was last seen in the story wearing a false beard , as he escaped on a bus after sexually assaulting popstar Britney Spears .
i.e. math \ mathbf { H } \ mathbf { H } ^ T = I / math , then the above minimization is mathematically equivalent to the minimization of K-means clustering .
Clustering is the main objective of most data mining applications of NMF .
The sequential construction of NMF components ( ) was firstly used to relate NMF with Principal Component Analysis ( PCA ) in astronomy.math components constructed .
trained by maximum likelihood estimation .
NMF with the least-squares objective is equivalent to a relaxed form of K-means clustering : the matrix factor
NMF is an instance of nonnegative quadratic programming ( NQP ) , just like the support vector machine ( SVM ) .
NMF can be used for text mining applications .
Troponymy is one of the possible relations between verb s in the semantic network of the WordNet database .
Semantic neural network ( SNN ) is based on John von Neumann ' s neural network nowiki / nowikivon Neumann , 1966nowiki / nowiki and Nikolai Amosov M-Network.Amosov , N. M. , A. M. Kasatkin , and L. M. Kasatkina .
Neural network software is used to simulate , research , develop , and apply artificial neural network s , software concepts adapted from biological neural network s , and in some cases , a wider array of adaptive system s such as artificial intelligence and machine learning .
With the advent of component-based frameworks such as .NET and Java , component based development environments are capable of deploying the developed neural network to these frameworks as inheritable components .
There are also many programming libraries that contain neural network functionality and that can be used in custom implementations ( such as TensorFlow , Theano , etc .
, typically providing bindings to languages such as Python , C + + , Java ) .
The research programs cover diverse areas including cognitive neuroscience , neural modeling , psychophysics , linguistics , neural networks and artificial intelligence .
The construction of parsed corpora in the early 1990s revolutionized computational linguistics , which benefitted from large-scale empirical data .Alexander Clark , Chris Fox and Shalom Lappin ( 2010 ) .
Treebanks are often created on top of a corpus that has already been annotated with part-of-speech tagging s .
From a computational linguistics Haitao Liu , Wei Huang - s , semantic analyzers and machine translation systems .
SNNS ( Stuttgart Neural Network Simulator ) is a neural network simulator originally developed at the University of Stuttgart .
It has support for arbitrary network topologies and the standard release contains support for a number of standard neural network architectures and training algorithms .
Since the actual algorithm is rather complicated , researchers looked for a more intuitive version of it , and in 1985 developed affine scaling , a version of Karmarkar 's algorithm that uses affine transformation s where Karmarkar used projective ones , only to realize four years later that they had rediscovered an algorithm published by Soviet Union mathematician I. I. Dikin in 1967 .
Quantum neural networks can be applied to algorithmic design : given qubits with tunable mutual interactions , one can attempt to learn interactions following the classical backpropagation rule from a training set of desired input-output relations , taken to be the desired output algorithm 's behavior.J. Bang et al .
The development cycle in Synapse is based on the canonical data mining cycle .
ITK is a cross-platform , open-source application development framework widely used for the development of image segmentation and image registration programs .
ITK was developed with funding from the National Library of Medicine ( United States ) as an open resource of algorithms for analyzing the images of the Visible Human Project .
The software is implemented in C + + and it is wrapped for Python .
The source code of the Insight Toolkit is distributed under an Apache 2.0 License ( as approved by the Open Source Initiative )
The main motivation for adopting a BSD license starting with ITK 3.6 , was to have an Open Source Initiative -approved license .
Thus the optical flow can be assumed to hold for all pixels within a window centered at " p " .
In order to achieve Video tracking with this method , the flow vector can be iteratively applied and recalculated , until some threshold near zero is reached , at which point it can be assumed that the image windows are very close in similarity .
BLEU ( bilingual evaluation understudy ) is an algorithm for evaluating the quality of text which has been machine translation from one natural language to another .
BLEU uses a modified form of precision to compare a candidate translation against multiple reference translations .
It has been pointed out that precision is usually twinned with recall to overcome this problem
However , in the version of the metric used by NIST evaluations prior to 2009 , the shortest reference sentence had been used instead .
He is a graduate of the Universities of Saskatchewan ( B.A. in philosophy , 1971 ) , Cambridge ( M.A. in philosophy , 1973 ) , University of Toronto ( Ph.D. in philosophy , 1977 ) and Michigan ( M.S. in computer science , 1985 ) .
Waikato Environment for Knowledge Analysis ( Weka ) , developed at the University of Waikato , New Zealand .
Weka contains a collection of visualization tools and algorithms for data analysis and predictive modeling , together with graphical user interfaces for easy access to these functions. but the more recent fully Java -based version ( Weka 3 ) , for which development started in 1997 , is now used in many different application areas , in particular for educational purposes and research .
Weka supports several standard data mining tasks , more specifically , data preprocessing , clustering , classification , regression , visualization , and feature selection .
Weka provides access to deep learning with Deeplearning4j .
Saab-Scania AB was a Sweden vehicle manufacturer that was formed from the 1969 merger of Saab AB and Scania AB .
The company was founded in 1967 when three filmmakers , Graeme Ferguson , Roman Kroitor and Robert Kerr incorporated IMAX Corporation .
The idea and the new technology , which resulted in the birth of the company , came from the work that Ferguson , Kroitor and Kerr had done producing the multi-screen National Film Board of Canada production " In the Labyrinth " and Ferguson 's " Man and the Polar Regions " for Expo 67 .
JOONE ( Java Object Oriented Neural Engine ) is a component based neural network framework built in Java .
While in theory Joone can be used to construct a wider array of adaptive systems ( including those with non-adaptive elements ) , its focus is on backpropagation based neural networks .
The Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit is a branch of the United Kingdom Medical Research Council , based in Cambridge , England .
Symbolic Knowledge representation s have advantages with respect to explicit , direct control , fast initial coding , dynamic variable binding and knowledge abstraction .
Alan Turing remarked on multiple realizability in 1950 , for example , Restrepo , R. ( 2009 ) .
Andrew Ng said in his NIPS 2016 tutorial that TL will be next driver of ML commercial success after supervised learning to highlight the importance of TL .
In 1993 , Lorien Pratt published a paper on transfer in machine learning , formulating the discriminability-based transfer ( DBT ) algorithm .
In 1997 , the journal " Machine Learning " published a special issue devoted to transfer learning , edited by Pratt and Sebastian Thrun , is a 1998 review of the subject .
A Signal processing produces the error signal using these samples .
Alan Turing describes this type of computer in his concept of a Turing Machine .
An early , though indirect , criticism of the Computational Theory of Mind comes from philosopher John Searle .
In his thought experiment known as the Chinese room , Searle attempts to refute the claims that artificial intelligence can be said to have intentionality and understanding and that these systems , because they can be said to be minds themselves , are sufficient for the study of the human mind .
Nonetheless , the National University of Defense Technology was determined to make a robot for China , after seeing Japan ' s and United States ' s robots in the Expo ' 85 world fair in Tsukuba , Japan .
In that page , Samurai Damashii exaggerated the Senkousha as " the crystallization of China 's four thousand years of scientific knowledge , " commented on the crude design ( e.g. the " Chinese Cannon " on its crotch ) , and put its image among images of Honda ' s ASIMO and Sony ' s QRIO SDR-3X for juxtaposition .
( In Japan , in the past , a personal webpage with 1,000 pageviews per day was considered successful ) The articles officially started the Senkousha craze in Japan , and later Taiwan .
GeneRIFs are usually produced by National Center for Biotechnology Information indexers , but anyone may submit a GeneRIF .
The primary goal of the competition has been to provide a reason for the state of the art in aerial robotics to move forward .
An aerial robot from Germany 's Technical University of Berlin was able to detect and avoid all of the obstacles ( many of which could have destroyed the robot itself ) , identify all the dead on the ground and the survivors ( distinguishing between the two based on movement ) , and relay pictures of the survivors along with their locations back to first responders who would attempt a rescue .
Techniques such as optical flow or optical odometry are possible solutions to navigation within the arena .
In 2018 , the inaugural year of mission 8 , the American Venue was held on the campus of the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta , Georgia , and the Asia / Pacific Venue was conducted at Beihang University Gymnasium in Beijing China .
One of the most frequently used techniques in geodemographic segmentation is the widely known k-means clustering algorithm .
In Australia , geoSmart is a geodemographic segmentation system based on the principle that people with similar demographic profiles and lifestyles tend to live near each other .
In 1979 a Micromouse competition was organized by the IEEE as shown in the " Spectrum " magazine .
UBBOTS is an annual robot exhibition taking place at Babes-Bolyai University , Cluj-Napoca , Romania .
Sakarya University Robotics Competition ( SAURO ) is a robotics competition hosted by Sakarya University since 2009 .
Unimate was the first industrial robot ,
It was invented by George Devol in the 1950s using his original patent filed in 1954 and granted in 1961 ( ) .
Devol , together with Joseph Engelberger , his business associate , started the world 's first robot manufacturing company , Unimation .
In statistical analysis of binary classification , the Fsub1 / sub score ( also F-score or F-measure ) is a measure of a test 's accuracy .
It considers both the precision " p " and the recall " r " of the test to compute the score : " p " is the number of correct positive results divided by the number of all positive results returned by the classifier , and " r " is the number of correct positive results divided by the number of all relevant samples ( all samples that should have been identified as positive ) .
This is related to the field of binary classification where recall is often termed " sensitivity .
The F-score is often used in the field of information retrieval for measuring search , document classification , and query classification performance. and so mathF _ \ beta / math is seen in wide application .
The F-score is also used in machine learning .See , e.g. , the evaluation of the may be preferable to assess the performance of a binary classifier .
The F-score has been widely used in the natural language processing literature , such as the evaluation of named entity recognition and word segmentation .
The F-score is also used for evaluating classification problems with more than two classes ( Multiclass classification ) .
An example of non-linear normalization is when the normalization follows a sigmoid function , in that case , the normalized image is computed according to the formula
The world 's largest location using SpeechMagic is the United States with more than 60,000 authors , more than 3,000 editors and a throughput of 400 million lines per year .
VAL was one of the first robot " languages " and was used in Unimate robots .
A neuron for Halle Berry , for example , might respond " to the concept , the abstract entity , of Halle Berry , " and would fire not only for images of Halle Berry , but also to the actual name " Halle Berry .
A direct method for producing an MSA uses the dynamic programming technique to identify the globally optimal alignment solution .
Hidden Markov model s are probabilistic models that can assign likelihoods to all possible combinations of gaps , matches , and mismatches to determine the most likely MSA or set of possible MSAs .
One such technique , genetic algorithm s , has been used for MSA production in an attempt to broadly simulate the hypothesized evolutionary process that gave rise to the divergence in the query set .
Beyond its life as a commercial product , ToonTalk evolved via significant academic use in various research projects , notably at the London Knowledge Lab and the Institute of Education - projects ) .
As in factor analysis , the LCA can also be used to classify case according to their maximum likelihood class membership .
This two-way model is related to probabilistic latent semantic analysis and non-negative matrix factorization .
Cluster analysis is , like LCA , used to discover taxon-like groups of cases in data .
The Shimizu TRY 2004 Mega-City Pyramid is a proposed Shimizu Corporation project for the construction of a massive arcology -pyramid over Tokyo Bay in Japan .
Because the seismically active Pacific Ring of Fire cuts right through Japan , the external structure of the pyramid would be an open network of megatrusses , supporting struts made from carbon nanotube s to allow the pyramid to stand against and let through high winds , and survive earthquakes and tsunami s .
He is director of the Dalle Molle Institute for Artificial Intelligence Research in Manno , in the Ticino canton of Switzerland .
It is a song featuring the characters of " Rent " holding a toast to bohemianism and shouting out what and who inspires them , such as jazz poet Langston Hughes and counterculture-era comedian Lenny Bruce .
Conditional random fields ( CRFs ) are a class of statistical modeling method often applied in pattern recognition and machine learning and used for structured prediction .
For example , in natural language processing , linear chain CRFs are popular , which implement sequential dependencies in the predictions .
Other examples where CRFs are used are : labeling or parsing of sequential data for natural language processing or biological sequences { { cite conference | authors = Lafferty , J. , McCallum , A. , Pereira , F. |
Workshop on Recognition and Action for Scene Understanding ( REACTS ) } } and image segmentation in computer vision .
John D. Lafferty , Andrew McCallum and Pereiramath as follows :
Learning the parameters math \ theta / math is usually done by maximum likelihood learning for mathp ( Y _ i | X _ i ; \ theta ) / math .
It can be solved for example using gradient descent algorithms , or Quasi-Newton method s such as the L-BFGS algorithm .
Interlingual machine translation is one of the classic approaches to machine translation .
Early interlingual MT systems were also built at Stanford in the 1970s by Roger Schank and Yorick Wilks ; the former became the basis of a commercial system for the transfer of funds , and the latter 's code is preserved at The Computer Museum at Boston as the first interlingual machine translation system .
It is however necessary to distinguish between interlingual systems using only syntactic methods ( for example the systems developed in the 1970s at the universities of Grenoble and Texas ) and those based on artificial intelligence ( from 1987 in Japan and the research at the universities of Southern California and Carnegie Mellon ) .
Janet Pierrehumbert Pierrehumbert is also affiliated with the New Zealand Institute of Language Brain and Behaviour at the University of Canterbury .
She has held visiting appointments at Stanford University , Oxford , the Royal Institute of Technology , ENST , École Normale Supérieure , and Stockholm University .
The machine learning program KI , developed by Murray and Porter at the University of Texas at Austin , was created to study the use of automated and semi-automated knowledge integration to assist knowledge engineers constructing a large knowledge base .
Roger Shepard and Jacqueline Metzler ( 1971 ) were some of the first to research the phenomenon.Shepard , R. N. , & Metzler , J. , " Mental rotation : Effects of Dimensionality of Objects and Type of Task , " " Journal of Experimental Psychology : Human Perception and Performance " , Vol 14 , Feb 1988 , pp. 3-11 .
In statistics and image processing , to smooth a data set is to create an approximating function that attempts to capture important pattern s in the data , while leaving out noise or other fine-scale structures / rapid phenomena .
In image processing and computer vision , smoothing ideas are used in scale space representations .
Yelp was founded in 2004 by former PayPal employees Russel Simmons and Jeremy Stoppelman .
Two former PayPal employees , Jeremy Stoppelman and Russel Simmons , founded Yelp at a business incubator , MRL Ventures , in 2004 .
Journalist David Lazarus of the " Los Angeles Times " also criticized Yelp in 2014 for the practice of selling competitors ' ads to run on top of business listings and then offering to have the ads removed as part of a paid feature .
Another common model for overdispersion - when some of the observations are not Bernoulli - arises from introducing a normal random variable into a logistic regression .
In this case , if the variance of the normal variable is zero , the model reduces to the standard ( undispersed ) logistic regression .
In mathematics , a Relevance Vector Machine ( RVM ) is a machine learning technique that uses Bayesian inference to obtain parsimonious solutions for regression and probabilistic classification .
The RVM has an identical functional form to the support vector machine , but provides probabilistic classification .
Compared to that of support vector machine s ( SVM ) , the Bayesian formulation of the RVM avoids the set of free parameters of the SVM ( that usually require cross-validation-based post-optimizations ) .
This is unlike the standard sequential minimal optimization ( SMO ) -based algorithms employed by Support vector machine s , which are guaranteed to find a global optimum ( of the convex problem ) .
In the domain of computer vision , efforts have been made in modeling the mechanism of human attention , especially the bottom-up attentional mechanism
From the perspective of knowledge representation , a set of ground atoms can be thought of as a description of a complete state of knowledge : the atoms that belong to the set are known to be true , and the atoms that do not belong to the set are known to be false .
In machine learning , the goal is to train a system to minimize a cost function or ( referring to ALOPEX ) a response function .
Many training algorithms , such as backpropagation , have an inherent susceptibility to getting " stuck " in local minima or maxima of the response function .
It soon expanded its coverage to other board-level computers , the Kaypro computer , and general hobbyist / experimental computing , with special interest areas being robotics , interfacing , embedded systems and programming language s .
" Micro C " carried articles on a wide range of subjects , some system-specific and newsletter-like , but also covering ( then ) off-mainstream topics , e.g. 3D graphics , artificial intelligence , or the special needs of handicapped users .
GOCR ( or JOCR ) is a free optical character recognition program , initially written by Jörg Schulenburg .
Apertium is a shallow-transfer machine translation system , which uses finite state transducer s for all of its lexical transformations , and hidden Markov model s for part-of-speech tagging or word category disambiguation .
Existing machine translation systems available at present are mostly commercial or use proprietary technologies , which makes them very hard to adapt to new usages ; furthermore , they use different technologies across language pairs , which makes it very difficult , for instance , to integrate them in a single multilingual content management system .
Apertium originated as one of the machine translation engines in the project OpenTrad , which was funded by the Spain government , and developed by the Transducens research group at the University of Alicante .
Speech segmentation is a subfield of general speech perception and an important subproblem of the technologically focused field of speech recognition , and cannot be adequately solved in isolation .
As in most natural language processing problems , one must take into account context , grammar , and semantics , and even so the result is often a probabilistic division ( statistically based on likelihood ) rather than a categorical one .
This problem overlaps to some extent with the problem of text segmentation that occurs in some languages which are traditionally written without inter-word spaces , like Chinese and Japanese , compared to writing system s which indicate speech segmentation between words by a word divider , such as the space .
Word Boundary Identification can be overcome by Natural language understanding approaches such as ( RRG ) for languages without spaces between words such as Japanese and Chinese .
" An often-used example in the literature of speech recognition .
Lexical recognition is of particular value in the field of computer speech recognition , since the ability to build and search a network of semantically connected ideas would greatly increase the effectiveness of speech-recognition software .
Compare speech segmentation , the process of dividing speech into linguistically meaningful portions .
The Unicode Consortium has published a " Standard Annex on Text Segmentation " , exploring the issues of segmentation in multiscript texts .
While the first is a simple machine learning of a specific text , the latter case implies that a document may contain multiple topics , and the task of computerized text segmentation may be to discover these topics automatically and segment the text accordingly .
Segmenting the text into topic s or discourse turns might be useful in some natural processing tasks : it can improve information retrieval or speech recognition significantly ( by indexing / recognizing documents more precisely or by giving the specific part of a document corresponding to the query as a result ) .
Automatic segmentation is the problem in natural language processing of implementing a computer process to segment text .
They presented their method and results in SIGGRAPH 2000 .
In the late 2010s , machine learning , and more precisely generative adversarial networks ( GAN ) , were used by NVIDIA to produce random yet photorealistic human portraits .
The speech synthesis is verging on being completely indistinguishable from a real human 's voice with the 2016 introduction of the voice editing and generation software Adobe Voco , a prototype slated to be a part of the Adobe Creative Suite and DeepMind WaveNet , a prototype from Google .
At the 2018 Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems ( NeurIPS ) researchers from Google presented the work .
Unlike the conjugate gradient method , this algorithm does not require the matrix mathA / math to be self-adjoint , but instead one needs to perform multiplications by the conjugate transpose .
The biconjugate gradient method is numerically unstable ( compare to the biconjugate gradient stabilized method ) , but very important from a theoretical point of view .
The BigDog project was headed by Dr. Martin Buehler , who received the Joseph Engelberger Award from the Robotics Industries Association in 2012 for the work .
The Hann function of length mathL , / math used to perform Hann smoothing , is named after the Austrian meteorologist Julius von Hann , is a window function given by :
For digital signal processing , the function can be sampled symmetrically as :
Fumio Miyazaki , an engineering science professor at the Toyonaka Campus of Osaka University , has stated that Japanese scientists could potentially provide thousands of humanoids that could be working alongside humans by the end of the 2020s .
In the mid-20th century , professor Ichiro Kato of Waseda University studied humanoid robots .
Grammatical induction using evolutionary algorithm s is the process of evolving a representation of the grammar of a target language through some evolutionary process .
Like all greedy algorithm s , greedy grammar inference algorithms make , in iterative manner , decisions that seem to be the best at that stage .
The principle of grammar induction has been applied to other aspects of natural language processing , and has been applied ( among many other problems ) to semantic parsing ,
NeuroSolutions is a neural network development environment developed by NeuroDimension .
The software is used to design , train and deploy neural network ( supervised learning and unsupervised learning ) models to perform a wide variety of tasks such as data mining , classification , function approximation , multivariate regression and time-series prediction .
NeuroSolutions provides three separate wizards for automatically building neural network models :
The Data Manager module allows the user to import data from Microsoft Access , Microsoft Excel or text files and perform various preprocessing and data analysis operations .
From the Data Manager , the user can load the data directly into a NeuroSolutions breadboard or use the data to create a new neural network .
The NeuralBuilder centers the design specifications on the specific neural network architecture the user wishes to build .
Once the neural network architecture is selected , the user can customize parameters such as the number of hidden layers , the number of processing elements and the learning algorithm .
If the user is unsure what the parameters should be set to , a genetic algorithm can be used to optimize the settings .
The NeuralExpert centers the design specifications around the type of problem the user would like the neural network to solve ( Classification , Prediction , Function approximation or Cluster analysis ) .
Given this problem type and the size of the user 's data set , the NeuralExpert intelligently selects the neural network size and architecture that will likely produce a good solution .
NeuroSolutions can automatically generate C + + source code for a neural network designed within its graphical user interface .
This provides the flexibility to customize the neural network code for the particular application .
Since the generated code is ANSI -compliant , the user can deploy the neural network solution to other platforms such as UNIX .
The Custom Solution Wizard is an optional add-on product that will take a neural network designed within NeuroSolutions and encapsulate it into a dynamic link library ( DLL ) that conforms to a simple protocol .
Marcus Hutter ( born April 14 , 1967 ) is DeepMind Senior Scientist researching the mathematical foundations of artificial general intelligence .
In 2002 Hutter , with Jürgen Schmidhuber and Shane Legg , developed and published a mathematical theory of artificial general intelligence based on idealised intelligent agents and reward-motivated reinforcement learning .
In statistics , multinomial logistic regression is a classification method that generalizes logistic regression to multiclass classification , i.e. with more than two possible discrete outcomes .
As with other types of regression , there is no need for the independent variables to be statistically independent from each other ( unlike , for example , in a naive Bayes classifier ) ; however , collinearity is assumed to be relatively low , as it becomes difficult to differentiate between the impact of several variables if this is not the case .
The article on logistic regression presents a number of equivalent formulations of simple logistic regression , and many of these have analogues in the multinomial logit model .
The difference between the multinomial logit model and numerous other methods , models , algorithms , etc. with the same basic setup ( the perceptron algorithm , support vector machine s , linear discriminant analysis , etc .
The basic setup is the same as in logistic regression , the only difference being that the dependent variable s are categorical rather than binary , i.e. there are " K " possible outcomes rather than just two .
The following description is somewhat shortened ; for more details , consult the logistic regression article .
As explained in the logistic regression article , the regression coefficients and explanatory variables are normally grouped into vectors of size " M + 1 " , so that the predictor function can be written more compactly :
The unknown parameters in each vector " βsubk / sub " are typically jointly estimated by maximum a posteriori ( MAP ) estimation , which is an extension of maximum likelihood using regularization of the weights to prevent pathological solutions ( usually a squared regularizing function , which is equivalent to placing a zero-mean Gaussian prior distribution on the weights , but other distributions are also possible ) .
In natural language processing , multinomial LR classifiers are commonly used as an alternative to naive Bayes classifier s because they do not assume statistical independence of the random variables ( commonly known as " features " ) that serve as predictors .
Euler Math Toolbox uses a matrix language similar to MATLAB , a system that had been under development since the 1970s .
Then and now the main developer of Euler is René Grothmann , a mathematician at the Catholic University of Eichstätt-Ingolstadt , Germany .
The next year it grew significantly and was organized by Hong Kong Polytechnic University , led by Dr. Clifford Choy from the university 's School of Design in November 2015 as well as in April 2017 .
In the terminology of signal processing , a frame provides a redundant , stable way of representing a signal .
Today frames are associated with wavelets , signal and image processing , and data compression .
In signal processing , each vector is interpreted as a signal .
One source for the philosophy of information can be found in the technical work of Norbert Wiener , Alan Turing ( though his work has a wholly different origin and theoretical framework ) , William Ross Ashby , Claude Shannon , Warren Weaver , and many other scientists working on computing and information theory back in the early 1950s .
Recent creative advances and efforts in computing , such as semantic web , ontology engineering , knowledge engineering , and modern artificial intelligence provide philosophy with fertile ideas , new and evolving subject matters , methodologies , and models for philosophical inquiry .
While computer science brings new opportunities and challenges to traditional philosophical studies , and changes the ways philosophers understand foundational concepts in philosophy , further major progress in computer science would only be feasible when philosophy provides sound foundations for areas such as bioinformatics , software engineering , knowledge engineering , and ontologies .
Classical topics in philosophy , namely , mind , consciousness , experience , reasoning , knowledge , truth , morality and creativity are rapidly becoming common concerns and foci of investigation in computer science , e.g. , in areas such as agent computing , software agents , and intelligent mobile agent technologies .
The technique was introduced by Wim Sweldens .
She serves as a member of the National Academy of Sciences ( since 2005 ) , American Academy of Arts and Sciences ( since 2009 ) ,
The idea behind statistical machine translation comes from information theory .
This trade-off between quality and time usage can also be found in speech recognition .
The statistical translation models were initially word based ( Models 1-5 from IBM Hidden Markov model from Stephan VogelS .
A language model is an essential component of any statistical machine translation system , which aids in making the translation as fluent as possible .
In speech recognition , the speech signal and the corresponding textual representation can be mapped to each other in blocks in order .
A built-in speech recognition system recognizes the speech and the recognition results are edited by an online system .
Recent years have seen a growing interest in combining speech recognition , machine translation and speech synthesis .
Bitext word alignment or simply word alignment is the natural language processing task of identifying translation relationships among the words ( or more rarely multiword units ) in a bitext , resulting in a bipartite graph between the two sides of the bitext , with an arc between two words if and only if they are translations of one another .
Bitext word alignment is an important supporting task for most methods of statistical machine translation .
This approach to training is an instance of unsupervised learning , in that the system is not given examples of the kind of output desired , but is trying to find values for the unobserved model and alignments which best explain the observed bitext .
Besides the training of machine translation systems , other applications of word alignment include translation lexicon induction , word sense discovery , word sense disambiguation and the cross-lingual projection of linguistic information .
The IBM models are used in Statistical machine translation to train a translation model and an alignment model .
Jelinek was born in Czechoslovakia just before the outbreak of World War II and emigrated with his family to the United States in the early years of the communist regime .
He met with his old friend Miloš Forman , who introduced him to film student Milena Tabolova whose screenplay had been the basis for the movie " Easy Life " ( " Snadný život " ) .
After the 1989 fall of communism , Jelinek helped establish scientific relationships , regularly visiting to lecture and helping to persuade IBM to establish a computing centre at Charles University .
Information theory was a fashionable scientific approach in the mid ' 50s .
Jelinek regarded speech recognition as an information theory problemwhich some observers considered a daring approach .
The METEO System is a machine translation system specifically designed for the translation of the weather forecast s issued daily by Environment Canada .
In natural language processing , the latent Dirichlet allocation ( LDA ) is a generative statistical model that allows sets of observations to be explained by unobserved groups that explain why some parts of the data are similar .
LDA is an example of a topic model and belongs to the machine learning toolbox and in wider sense to the artificial intelligence toolbox .
In the context of machine learning , where it is most widely applied today , LDA was rediscovered independently by David Blei , Andrew Ng and Michael I. Jordan in 2003 , and presented as a graphical model for topic discovery .
Topic modeling is a classic solution to the problem of information retrieval using linked data and semantic web technology .
Related models and techniques are , among others , latent semantic indexing , independent component analysis , probabilistic latent semantic indexing , non-negative matrix factorization , and Gamma-Poisson distribution .
QinetiQ is an offshoot of the UK ' s Defence Evaluation and Research Agency , which is Europe ' s largest science and technology company with a revenue of over $ 2.2 billion in the 2008 financial year .
is a subfield of machine learning where automatic learning algorithms are applied on metadata about machine learning experiments .
A good analogy to meta-learning , and the inspiration for Jürgen Schmidhuber ' s early work ( 1987 )
The model is known as MANN short for Memory-Augmented Neural Network s , which is expected to encode new information fast and thus to adapt to new tasks after only a few samples , it fits well for meta-learning .
Siamese neural network is composed of two twin networks whose output is jointly trained .
LSTM-based meta-learner is to learn the exact optimization algorithm used to train another learner neural network classifier in the few-shot regime .
The gradient of the image is one of the fundamental building blocks in image processing .
St. John Publications was an United States publisher of magazines and comic books .
" They traveled to Los Angeles together and were photographed in the TCL Chinese Theatre in front of Jean Harlow ' s footprints .
Graphic designer Warren Kramer recounted that St. John would attend Alcoholics Anonymous meetings , and was sober " most of the time .
" He said that St. John was " almost exactly " like the Harry Myers ' " Eccentric Millionaire " character in the film " City Lights " .
In natural language processing , perplexity is a way of evaluating language model s .
Swerling modeled these effects in a famous 1954 paper introduced while working at RAND Corporation .
Researchers consider number sense to be of prime importance for children in early elementary education , and the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics has made number sense a focus area of pre-K through 2nd grade mathematics education .
In computer vision and optical character recognition , the ROI defines the borders of an object under consideration .
In Optical Character Recognition ( OCR ) and Document Layout Analysis , regions of interest ( ROIs ) hierarchically encompass pages , text or graphical blocks , down to individual line-strip images , word and character image boxes .
The phrase takes on a slightly different meaning , in computer science , cognitive science or philosophy .
For modern adherents , such as Jerry Fodor , Steven Pinker and many others , the representational system consists rather of an internal language of thought ( i.e. , mentalese ) .
They added many specialized classes , for example for American National Standards Institute ( American National Standards Institute ) pipe and pipe fittings .
Martin Kay is a computer scientist , born in 1935 , known especially for his work in computational linguistics .
In 1961 , he moved to the Rand Corporation in Santa Monica , California , US , where he eventually became head of research in linguistics and machine translation .
He is currently Professor of Linguistics at Stanford University and Honorary Professor of Computational Linguistics at Saarland University .
In 1961 David G. Hays hired him to work for the RAND Corporation ; he subsequently worked for the University of California , Irvine and Xerox PARC .
Kay is one of the pioneers of computational linguistics and machine translation .
He has held posts at the University of Cambridge , Stanford University and the Australian National University , and is currently Professor of Comparative Linguistics at Radboud University .
Levinson 's earliest work was with John Gumperz in interactional sociolinguistics , studying the interaction patterns in a multilingual community in India .
From 1991 onward Levinson has led his own research lab , funded by the Max Planck Society and based at the Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics .
Leon Wieseltier , former member of the editorial board of the " Jewish Review of Books " , called the book , in " The New York Times " , " a sorry instance of present-day scientism " and alleged it to be " a merry anthology of contemporary superstitions .
Thomas Nagel said that Dennett 's book was ' beneath him ' and Edward Feser has extensively critiqued his book , criticising his interpretation of theistic arguments , whilst maintaining praise for his passages on cognitive neuroscience .
Roger Scruton both praised and criticised Dennett 's book in his book " On Human Nature " , endorsing his intellectual bravery and imaginative writing , yet criticising his reliance on the meme theory , and remaining sceptical of his view that all areas of human consciousness can be accessible through the neo-Darwinian human model alone .
SHOE was developed around 1996 by Sean Luke , Lee Spector , James Hendler , Jeff Heflin , and David Rager at the University of Maryland , College Park .
It is currently used in the Mozilla Foundation ' s project page and in several other software repositories , notably the Python Package Index .
A particularly relevant area where finding the appropriate structure and model is the key issue is text mining .
F-logic was developed by Michael Kifer at Stony Brook University and Georg Lausen at the University of Mannheim .
A development environment for F-logic was developed in the NeOn project and is also used in a range of applications for information integration , question answering and semantic search .
The frame syntax of the Rule Interchange Format Basic Logic Dialect ( RIF BLD ) standardized by the World Wide Web Consortium is based on F-logic ; RIF BLD however does not include non-monotonic reasoning features of F-logic .
Machine translation is a sub-field of computational linguistics that investigates the use of software to translate text or speech from one natural language to another .
Interest grew in statistical machine translation , which became more common and also less expensive in the 1980s as available computational power increased .
Several of these programs are available online , such as Google Translate and the SYSTRAN system that powers AltaVista 's BabelFish ( now Yahoo 's Babelfish as of 9 May 2008 ) .
The first set of proposals for computer based machine translation was presented in 1949 by Warren Weaver , a researcher at the Rockefeller Foundation , " Translation memorandum .
" These proposals were based on information theory , successes in code breaking during the Second World War , and theories about the universal principles underlying natural language .
Research in the 1960s in both the Soviet Union and the United States concentrated mainly on the Russian-English language pair .
The publication of the report had a profound impact on research into machine translation in the United States , and to a lesser extent the Soviet Union and United Kingdom .
Systems were also brought onto the market in China , Eastern Europe , Korea , and the Soviet Union .
During the 1990s , encouraged by successes in speech recognition and speech synthesis , research began into speech translation with the development of the German Verbmobil project .
Currently a large amount of research is being done into statistical machine translation and example-based machine translation .
Munnar is a small town located in Idukki district , of the southern state of Kerala in India .
Munnar is a small town located in Idukki district , of the southern state of Kerala in India .
In the LIMBER project CCLRC further developed an RDF thesaurus interchange format which was demonstrated on the European Language Social Science Thesaurus ( ELSST ) at the UK Data Archive as a multilingual version of the English language Humanities and Social Science Electronic Thesaurus ( HASSET ) which was planned to be used by the Council of European Social Science Data Archives CESSDA .
Originally established as an ARC Key Centre of Teaching and Research in 1999 , it now forms part of the ARC Centre of Excellence for Autonomous Systems , along with groups at the University of Technology , Sydney and the University of New South Wales .
Common signal processing and image processing knowledge suggests that to achieve perfect elimination of aliasing , proper spatial sampling at the Nyquist rate ( or higher ) after applying a 2D Anti-aliasing filter is required .
In the early days of color quantization , the k-means clustering algorithm was deemed unsuitable because of its high computational requirements and sensitivity to initialization .
Finally , one of the newer methods is " spatial color quantization " , conceived by Puzicha , Held , Ketterer , Buhmann , and Fellner of the University of Bonn , which combines dithering with palette generation and a simplified model of human perception to produce visually impressive results even for very small numbers of colors .
Similar is the concept of the " Self-Organizing Innovation Network , " it has been described by author , Robert Rycroft of the Elliott School of International Affairs of George Washington University .
It was initially developed by a student called Linus Torvalds and later became an open source software .
Sequential pattern mining is a topic of data mining concerned with finding statistically relevant patterns between data examples where the values are delivered in a sequence .
It is based on the Bilingual evaluation understudy metric , but with some alterations .
Where Bilingual evaluation understudy simply calculates n-gram precision adding equal weight to each one , NIST also calculates how informative a particular n-gram is .
NIST also differs from Bilingual evaluation understudy in its calculation of the brevity penalty insofar as small variations in translation length do not impact the overall score as much .
The impact of Posner 's theoretical and empirical contributions has been recognized through fellowship in the American Psychological Association , the Association for Psychological Science , the Society of Experimental Psychologists , the American Academy of Arts and Sciences , the American Association for the Advancement of Science , and the National Academy of Sciences .
In 2008 he presented the inaugural Paul B. Baltes Lecture at the Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Sciences and Humanities .
Working behind the scenes , Professor Meravi and Dr. Hannemann volunteered their time and talents tirelessly for fifteen years to help the robotics competition grow , expand , and develop into one of the premier robotics and engineering events in the nation .
RapidMiner is a data science software platform developed by the company of the same name that provides an integrated environment for data preparation , machine learning , deep learning , text mining , and predictive analytics .
RapidMiner , formerly known as YALE ( Yet Another Learning Environment ) , was developed starting in 2001 by Ralf Klinkenberg , Ingo Mierswa , and Simon Fischer at the Artificial Intelligence Unit of the Technical University of Dortmund .Guido Deutsch , " , " " TechCrunch " , November 4 , 2013 .
RapidMiner provides data mining and machine learning procedures including : data loading and transformation ( ETL ) , data preprocessing and visualization , predictive analytics and statistical modeling , evaluation , and deployment .
RapidMiner provides learning schemes , models and algorithms and can be extended using R and Python scripts.David Norris , , " " Bloor Research , November 13 , 2013 .
Computer vision & ndash ; interdisciplinary field that deals with how computers can be made to gain high-level understanding from digital image s or video s .
Computer vision tasks include methods for acquiring digital images ( through image sensor s ) , image processing , and image analysis , to reach an understanding of digital images .
Many of the research and developments have taken place in the Netherlands .
The most farms with AMS are located in the Netherlands , and Denmark .
In May 2013 it was announced that a consortium of Google , NASA Ames and the non-profit Universities Space Research Association purchased an adiabatic quantum computer from D-Wave Systems with 512 qubits .
The available resources include in addition software for acoustic model training , Language model compilation and a public domain pronunciation dictionary , cmudict .
Sphinx is a continuous-speech , speaker-independent recognition system making use of hidden Markov acoustic models ( Hidden Markov model ) and an n-gram statistical language model .
Sphinx 3 is under active development and in conjunction with SphinxTrain provides access to a number of modern modeling techniques , such as LDA / MLLT , MLLR and VTLN , that improve recognition accuracy ( see the article on Speech Recognition for descriptions of these techniques ) .
PocketSphinx is under active development and incorporates features such as fixed-point arithmetic and efficient algorithms for GMM computation .
The hardware reference designs are distributed under a Creative Commons Attribution Share-Alike 2.5 license and are available on the Arduino website .
The Arduino integrated development environment ( IDE ) is a cross-platform application ( for Windows , macOS , and Linux ) that is written in the programming language Java .
The AgMES ( Agricultural Metadata Element set ) initiative was developed by the Food and Agriculture Organization ( FAO ) of the United Nations and aims to encompass issues of semantic standards in the domain of agriculture with respect to description , resource discovery , interoperability and data exchange for different types of information resources .
ANIMAL ( first implementation : 1988 - revised : 2004 ) is an interactive environment for image processing that is oriented toward the rapid prototyping , testing , and modification of algorithms .
ANIMAL has been ported to R , a freely available language and environment for statistical computing and graphics .
Analogical modeling ( AM ) is a formal theory of exemplar based analogical reasoning , proposed by Royal Skousen , professor of Linguistics and English language at Brigham Young University in Provo , Utah .
In image processing and computer vision , a scale space framework can be used to represent an image as a family of gradually smoothed images .
In the computer vision , image processing and signal processing literature there are many other multi-scale approaches , using wavelets and a variety of other kernels , that do not exploit or require the same requirements as scale space descriptions do ; please see the article on related multi-scale approaches .
iris recognition algorithm } }
He held the Johann Bernoulli Chair of Mathematics and Informatics at the University of Groningen in the Netherlands , and the Toshiba Endowed Chair at the Tokyo Institute of Technology in Japan before becoming Professor at Cambridge .
Daugman filed for a patent for his iris recognition algorithm
Enactive interfaces are new types of Human-computer interaction that express and transmit the enactive knowledge by integrating different sensory aspects .
The development of such interfaces requires the creation of a common vision between different research areas like computer vision , haptic and sound processing , giving more attention on the motor action aspect of interaction .
Enactive interfaces are related to a fundamental interaction concept that often is not exploited by existing Human-computer interaction technologies .
A Network of Excellence is a European Economic Community research instrument that provides fundings for the integration of the research activities of different research laboratories and institutions .
In 1993 , Mallat and Zhang proposed a Greedy algorithm solution that they named " Matching Pursuit .
Space-time adaptive processing ( STAP ) is a digital signal processing technique most commonly used in radar systems .
The principal component method firsts applies principal component analysis to estimate the dominant eigenvalues and eigenvectors , and then applies a covariance taper and adds an estimated noise floor :
to minimize the Mean squared error .
In natural language processing a " w-shingling " is a set of " unique " " shingles " ( therefore " n-grams " ) each of which is composed of contiguous subsequence s of tokens within a document , which can then be used to ascertain the similarity between documents .
Sensitivity and specificity are statistical measures of the performance of a binary classification test , also known in statistics as a classification function , that are widely used in medicine :
The values of sensitivity and specificity are agnostic to the percent of positive cases in the population of interest ( as opposed to , for example , precision ) .
The four outcomes can be formulated in a 2 × 2 " contingency table " or " confusion matrix " , as follows :
Sensitivity is not the same as the precision or positive predictive value ( ratio of true positives to combined true and false positives ) , which is as much a statement about the proportion of actual positives in the population being tested as it is about the test .
In information retrieval , the positive predictive value is called precision , and sensitivity is called recall .
Holyoak is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences .
He received a Fellowship from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation in 1991 , See list of Guggenheim Fellows on the .
Reification in knowledge representation is the process of turning a predicate into an object .
Reification in natural language processing refers to where a natural language statement is transformed so actions and events in it become quantifiable variables .
The most widely known application of laboratory automation technology is laboratory robotics .
The delta robot ( a parallel arm robot ) was invented in the early 1980s by a research team led by professor Reymond Clavel at the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne ( EPFL , Switzerland ) .
There are about thirty iCubs in various laboratories mainly in the European Union but also one in the United States .
Human-based genetic algorithm ( HBGA ) provides means for human-based recombination operation ( a distinctive feature of genetic algorithm s ) .
Sperber was trained in anthropology at the University of Paris and the University of Oxford .
His most influential work is arguably in linguistics and philosophy : with the British linguist and philosopher Deirdre Wilson he has developed an innovative approach to linguistic interpretation known as relevance theory which has become mainstream in the area of pragmatics , linguistics , artificial intelligence and cognitive psychology .
Simon Kenton ran the gauntlet here in 1778 .
He takes this disparity to mean that human mathematicians are not describable as formal proof systems and are not running an algorithm , so that the computational theory of mind is false , and computational approaches to artificial general intelligence are unfounded .
Penrose 's views on the human thought process are not widely accepted in scientific circles ( Drew McDermott ,
John Searle criticises Penrose 's appeal to Gödel as resting on the fallacy that all computational algorithms must be capable of mathematical description .
In image processing decorrelation techniques can be used to enhance or stretch , color differences found in each pixel of an image .
In neuroscience , decorrelation is used in the analysis of the neural network s in the human visual system .
Dickmanns has been a professor at Bundeswehr University Munich ( 1975-2001 ) , and visiting professor to Caltech and to MIT , teaching courses on " dynamic vision .
Back then , computers were much slower than they are today ( ~ 1 % of 1 % ) ; therefore , sophisticated computer vision strategies were necessary to react in real time .
The team of Dickmanns solved the problem through an innovative approach to dynamic Computer vision .
Generally , the filter is described by the frequency at which the phase shift crosses 90 ° ( i.e. , when the input and output signals go into quadrature & ndash ; when there is a quarter wavelength of delay between them ) .
MoneyBee was a distributed computing project in the fields of economics , finance and stock market s , that generated stock forecasts by application of artificial intelligence with the aid of artificial neural networks .
The project was run by i42 Informationsmanagement GmbH , a consulting private company from Mannheim , Germany .
METEOR ( Metric for Evaluation of Translation with Explicit ORdering ) is a metric for the evaluation of machine translation output .
It also has several features that are not found in other metrics , such as stemming and synonymy matching , along with the standard exact word matching .
The metric was designed to fix some of the problems found in the more popular BLEU metric , and also produce good correlation with human judgement at the sentence or segment level .
Results have been presented which give correlation of up to 0.964 with human judgement at the corpus level , compared to BLEU ' s achievement of 0.817 on the same data set .
As with BLEU , the basic unit of evaluation is the sentence , the algorithm first creates an " alignment " ( see illustrations ) between two sentence s , the candidate translation string , and the reference translation string .
The KDD Conference grew from KDD ( Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining ) workshops at AAAI conferences , which were started by Gregory I. Piatetsky-Shapiro in 1989 , 1991 , and 1993 , and Usama Fayyad in 1994.Machinery | ACM .
Heinrich Wild ( 1877-1951 ) , a leading designer of geodetic and astronomical instruments , was born in Switzerland and began his career as an apprentice surveyor .
Azriel Rosenfeld ( February 19 , 1931 - February 22 , 2004 ) was an American Research Professor , a Distinguished University Professor , and Director of the Center for Automation Research at the University of Maryland in College Park , Maryland , where he also held affiliate professorships in the Departments of computer science , Electrical Engineering , and Psychology .
He was a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery ( 1994 ) .
He received B.S. from National Taiwan University in 1953 , M.A. from University of Toronto in 1955 , and Ph.D from University of Illinois , Urbana-Champaign in 1959 .
He was instrumental in establishing the Microelectronics and Information Science and Technology Research Center at the National Chiao Tung University in 1984 .
is an extension of principal component analysis ( PCA ) using techniques of kernel methods .
Each issue focuses on an academic theme such as engineering , social sciences , archaeology , or robotics , that a younger student might not be exposed to in the course of primary or secondary education .
Noisy text analytics is a process of information extraction whose goal is to automatically extract structured or semistructured information from noisy unstructured text data .
Also , text produced by processing spontaneous speech using automatic speech recognition and printed or handwritten text using optical character recognition contains processing noise .
Such text can be seen in large amounts in contact centers , chat room s , optical character recognition ( OCR ) of text documents , short message service ( SMS ) text , etc .
Missing punctuation and the use of non-standard words can often hinder standard natural language processing tools such as part-of-speech tagging
" Over the past decade , PCNNs have been used in a variety of image processing applications , including : image segmentation , feature generation , face extraction , motion detection , region growing , and noise reduction .
A PCNN is a two-dimensional neural network .
The softmax function is used in various multiclass classification methods , such as multinomial logistic regression ( also known as softmax regression ) is :
Such networks are commonly trained under a Cross entropy ( or cross-entropy ) regime , giving a non-linear variant of multinomial logistic regression .
Here , the Kronecker delta is used for simplicity ( cf. the derivative of a sigmoid function , being expressed via the function itself ) .
In the field of reinforcement learning , a softmax function can be used to convert values into action probabilities .
Computation of this example using Python code :
Here is an example of R code :
In mathematic s and computer vision , the ridges ( or the ridge set ) of a smooth function of two variables are a set of curves whose points are , in one or more ways to be made precise below , local maxima of the function in at least one dimension .
The primary motivation for the creation of ridge detection and valley detection procedures has come from image analysis and computer vision and is to capture the interior of elongated objects in the image domain .
Ridge-related representations in terms of watershed s have been used for image segmentation .
An argument map , unlike a decision tree , does not tell how to make a decision , but the process of choosing a coherent position ( or reflective equilibrium ) based on the structure of an argument map can be represented as a decision tree.See section 4.2 , " Argument maps as reasoning tools , " in
Legal philosopher and theorist John Henry Wigmore produced maps of legal arguments using numbered premises in the early 20th century ,
Michael Scriven further developed the Beardsley-Thomas approach in his 1976 book " Reasoning " .
Human-computer interaction pioneer Douglas Engelbart , in a famous 1962 technical report on intelligence augmentation , envisioned in detail something like argument-mapping software as an integral part of future intelligence-augmenting computer interfaces :
All of them are indebted to the pioneering work and leadership of Caryl Parker Haskins , Franklin S. Cooper , Alvin Liberman , Seymour Hutner and Luigi Provasoli .
Experimental psychologist Alvin Liberman joined the Laboratories to assist in developing a " sound alphabet " to represent the letters in a text for use in a reading machine for the blind .
Franklin S. Cooper and Katherine Safford Harris , working with Peter MacNeilage , were the first researchers in the U.S. to use electromyographic techniques , pioneered at the University of Tokyo , to study the neuromuscular organization of speech .
Isabelle Liberman , Donald Shankweiler , and Alvin Liberman teamed up with Ignatius Mattingly to study the relationship between speech perception and reading , a topic implicit in the Laboratories ' research program since its inception .
Delft University of Technology offers an example of data stewardship implementation at a research institution .
SNePS formula-based inference is sound but not complete , as rules of inference that are less useful for natural language understanding and commonsense reasoning have not been implemented .
In 1990 , he introduced the simple recurrent neural network ( SRNN ) , also known as the ' Elman network ' , which is capable of processing sequentially ordered stimuli , and has since become widely used .
In 1990 , he introduced the simple recurrent neural network ( SRNN ; aka ' Elman network ' ) , which is a widely used recurrent neural network that is capable of processing sequentially ordered stimuli.Jeffrey L. Elman .
In 1996 , he co-authored ( with Annette Karmiloff-Smith , Elizabeth Bates , Mark H. Johnson , Domenico Parisi , and Kim Plunkett ) , the book " Rethinking Innateness " , which argues against a strong nativist ( innate ) view of development .
As of 2017 , he is a professor at the Collège de France and , since 1989 , the director of INSERM Unit 562 , " Cognitive Neuroimaging .
Dehaene was one of ten people to be awarded the James S. McDonnell Foundation Centennial Fellowship
After receiving his doctorate , Dehaene became a research scientist at INSERM in the Cognitive Sciences and Psycholinguistics Laboratory ( " Laboratoire de Sciences Cognitives et Psycholinguistique " ) directed by Mehler.ref name = DehaeneCV / He also spent two years , from 1992 to 1994 , as a post-doctoral fellow at the Institute of Cognitive and Decision Sciences , with Michael Posner at the University of Oregon .ref name = DehaeneCV /
Dehaene then returned to France , where he began his own research group , which today numbers nearly 30 graduate students , post-doctoral fellows and researchers.ref name = DehaeneCV / In 2005 , he was elected to the newly created Chair of Experimental Psychology at the Collège de France .ref name = DehaeneCV /
With long-time collaborator Laurent Cohen , a neurologist at the Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital in Paris , Dehaene also identified patients with lesions in different regions of the parietal lobe with impaired multiplication , but preserved subtraction ( associated with lesions of the inferior parietal lobule ) and others with impaired subtraction , but preserved multiplication ( associated with lesions to the intraparietal sulcus ) .
Together with Pierre Pica , and Elizabeth Spelke , Stanislas Dehaene has studied the numeracy and numeral expressions of the mundurucu ( an indigenous tribe living in Para , Brazil ) .
The program was hosted by Grant Imahara of the Mythbusters .
Originally controlled via static html web pages using CGI , work by Dalton saw the introduction of an augmented reality Java -based interface that met with limited success .
The robot continues to be the basis for research and group projects undertaken by Mechatronics Engineering students and staff at University of Western Australia , Primarily involving the addition of new features or capabilities to the system .
Percy alludes to a metaphor he had used in " The Delta Factor , " that of the literature student who cannot read a William Shakespeare sonnet that is easily read by a post apocalyptic survivor in Aldous Huxley ' s " Brave New World " .
In both cases , they are represented in homogeneous coordinates ( i.e. they have an additional last component , which is initially , by convention , a 1 ) , which is the most common notation in robotics and rigid body transforms .
Camera calibration is often used as an early stage in computer vision .
Embodied cognitive science borrows heavily from embodied philosophy and the related research fields of cognitive science , psychology , neuroscience and artificial intelligence .
In 1950 , Alan Turing proposed that a machine may need a human-like body to think and speak :
Pure vision is an idea that is typically associated with classical artificial intelligence , in which vision is used to create a rich world model so that thought and reason can be used to fully explore the inner model .
The process is complex and contains encoding and recall or retrieval .
Since the advent of computers and artificial intelligence , computer programs have been adapted that attempt to simulate the implicit learning process observed in the AGL paradigm .
Clark undertook Voluntary Service Overseas from 1967-1968 as a teacher of Mathematics at a school in Sierra Leone .
Data analyses in Origin include statistics , signal processing , curve fitting and peak analysis .
Other programming options include an embedded Python environment , and an R Console plus support for Rserve .
Johnson-Laird is a Fellow of the American Philosophical Society , a Fellow of the Royal Society , a Fellow of the British Academy , a William James Fellow of the Association for Psychological Science , and a Fellow of the Cognitive Science Society .
He won the Spearman Medal in 1974 , the British Psychological Society President 's Award in 1985 , and the International Prize from Fyssen Foundation in 2002 .
He has been a member of the United States National Academy of Sciences since 2007 .
She served as the president of the Linguistic Society of America in 1999 .
She was elected as a Corresponding Fellow of the British Academy in 2015 .
In 2016 , she was selected as the ACL ( Association for Computational Linguistics ) Lifetime Achievement Award winner .
- were taken in the 2004 AAAI Spring Symposium where linguists , computer scientists , and other interested researchers first aligned interests and proposed shared tasks and benchmark data sets for the systematic computational research on affect , appeal , subjectivity , and sentiment in text.Qu , Yan , James Shanahan , and Janyce Wiebe .
When a piece of unstructured text is analyzed using natural language processing , each concept in the specified environment is given a score based on the way sentiment words relate to the concept and its associated score .
Open source software tools as well as range of free and paid sentiment analysis tools deploy machine learning , statistics , and natural language processing techniques to automate sentiment analysis on large collections of texts , including web pages , online news , internet discussion groups , online reviews , web blogs , and social media .
For a recommender system , sentiment analysis has been proven to be a valuable technique .
A recommender system aims to predict the preference for an item of a target user .
Kenneth R. Koedinger ( born 1962 in Wisconsin ) is a professor of human-computer interaction and psychology at Carnegie Mellon University .
Koedinger worked as a Research Scientist in the Human-Computer Interaction Institute at Carnegie Mellon University .
ACE can serve as knowledge representation , specification , and query language , and is intended for professionals who want to use formal notations and formal methods , but may not be familiar with them .
ACE and its related tools have been used in the fields of software specifications , theorem proving , automatic summarization , ontologies , rules , querying , medical documentation and planning .
Translating an ACE text into ( a fragment of ) first-order logic allows users to reason about the text , for instance to verify , to validate , and to Information retrieval it .
The learnable evolution model ( LEM ) is a non- Darwinian methodology for evolutionary computation that employs machine learning to guide the generation of new individuals ( candidate problem solution s ) .
Ripley has made contributions to the fields of spatial statistics and pattern recognition .
His work on artificial neural network s in the 1990s helped to bring aspects of machine learning and data mining to the attention of statistical audiences.For instance , his book " Pattern Recognition and Neural Networks " was reviewed in the Journal of the American Statistical Association : .
In digital signal processing , it is a measure of how quickly the spectrum of an audio sound tails off towards the high frequencies , calculated using a linear regression .
One way to quantify this is by applying linear regression to the Fourier magnitude spectrum of the signal , which produces a single number indicating the slope of the line-of-best-fit through the spectral data .
A not-for-profit organisation , the European Language Resources Association ( " ELRA " ) is established under the law of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg .
Finally , every other year , ELRA organizes a major conference LREC , the International Language Resources and Evaluation Conference .
Information Dissemination is also part of ELRA 's missions which is carried through both the organisation of the conference LREC and the Language Resources and Evaluation Journal edited by Springer .
He also contributed much through the establishment of ELRA and the LREC conference .
Association for Computational Linguistics , published by
Maarten de Rijke , Professor of Information Processing and Internet in the Informatics Institute ( the University of Amsterdam ) and
Units loaded with Haitian dialects have been provided to U.S. troops in Haiti .
The Linguistics Research Center ( LRC ) at the University of Texas is a center for computational linguistics research & development directed by Prof. Winfred Lehmann until his death in 2007 , and subsequently by Dr. Jonathan Slocum .
In the early days , research efforts at the LRC concentrated on machine translation ( MT ) -- the translation of texts from one human language to another with the aid of computers , very developed nowadays in the field of language industry - funded by the USAF and other sponsors .
Based both on new research in cognitive science and on cognitive-shifting studies of ancient meditation techniques ( see Jon Kabat-Zinn ) , focus phrases have been used as a meditative tool and therapy aid , and are being introduced as at-work attentive boosts .
virtual personalities , Inc. traces its technology back to Michael Loren Mauldin ' s work as a graduate student and post-doctoral fellow at Carnegie Mellon University ; and its artistry back to Peter Plantec ' s work in personality psychology and art direction .
· R
An autoencoder is a type of artificial neural network used to learn Feature learning in an unsupervised learning manner .
An " autoencoder " is a neural network that learns to copy its input to its output .
Here , math \ sigma / math is an element-wise activation function such as a sigmoid function or a rectified linear unit .
Weights and biases are usually initialized randomly , and then updated iteratively during training through Backpropagation .
Autoencoders are trained to minimise reconstruction errors ( such as Mean squared error ) , often referred to as the " loss " :
As mentioned before , the training of an autoencoder is performed through Backpropagation , just like a regular feedforward neural network .
However , experimental results have shown that autoencoders might still feature learning in these cases .
) autoencoders , Variational autoencoders ( VAEs ) are generative model s , like Generative adversarial network .
Geoffrey Hinton developed a pretraining technique for training many-layered deep autoencoders .
One milestone paper on the subject was that of Geoffrey Hinton with his publication in Science Magazine in 2006 :
If linear activations are used , or only a single sigmoid hidden layer , then the optimal solution to an autoencoder is strongly related to principal component analysis ( PCA ) .
Information retrieval benefits particularly from dimensionality reduction in that search can become extremely efficient in certain kinds of low dimensional spaces .
Autoencoders were indeed applied to semantic hashing , proposed by Salakhutdinov and Geoffrey Hinton in 2007 .
Autoencoder has been successfully applied to the machine translation of human languages which is usually referred to as neural machine translation ( NMT ) .
In computer vision , blob detection methods are aimed at detecting regions in a digital image that differ in properties , such as brightness or color , compared to surrounding regions .
These regions could signal the presence of objects or parts of objects in the image domain with application to object recognition and / or object video tracking .
This in practice highly useful property implies that besides the specific topic of Laplacian blob detection , " local maxima / minima of the scale-normalized Laplacian are also used for scale selection in other contexts " , such as in corner detection , scale-adaptive feature tracking ( Bretzner and Lindeberg 1998 ) , in the scale-invariant feature transform ( Lowe 2004 ) as well as other image descriptors for image matching and object recognition .
In the area of computer vision , this idea has been used for defining affine invariant interest point operators as well as affine invariant texture analysis methods .
Multi-document summarization is an automatic procedure aimed at information extraction from multiple texts written about the same topic .
The multi-document summarization task is more complex than automatic summarization , even a long one .
The Document Understanding Conferences , conducted annually by NIST , have developed sophisticated evaluation criteria for techniques accepting the multi-document summarization challenge .
Tesseract is an optical character recognition engine for various operating systems .
Version 4 adds Long short-term memory based OCR engine and models for many additional languages and scripts , bringing the total to 116 languages .
There are many techniques for Word sense disambiguation that may be used .
These are numerically far more efficient than their text mining cousins , and tend to behave more intuitively , in that they map better to the similarity measures a human would generate .
Ghahramani was educated at the American School of Madrid in Spain and the University of Pennsylvania where he was awarded a double major degree in Cognitive Science and Computer Science in 1990 .
Following his PhD , Ghahramani moved to the University of Toronto in 1995 as an ITRC Postdoctoral Fellow in the Artificial Intelligence Lab , working with Geoffrey Hinton .
He has also worked on artificial intelligence , information retrieval , bioinformatics and statistics which provide the mathematical foundations for handling uncertainty , making decisions , and designing learning systems .
Nominal level is the operating level at which an electronic signal processing device is designed to operate .
In broadcasting equipment , this is termed the Maximum Permitted Level , which is defined by European Broadcasting Union standards .
These issues are addressed in many diverse publications , including literature on subjects like Version Spaces , Statistical Learning Theory , PAC Learning , Information Theory , and Algorithmic Information Theory .
Reinforcement learning as described by Watson and elaborated by Clark Hull created a lasting paradigm in behavioral psychology .
Neural network models of concept formation and the structure of knowledge have opened powerful hierarchical models of knowledge organization such as George Miller ' s Wordnet .
In addition to John R. Anderson , Joshua Tenenbaum has been a contributor to the field of concept learning ; he studied the computational basis of human learning and inference using behavioral testing of adults , children , and machines from Bayesian statistics and probability theory , but also from geometry , graph theory , and linear algebra .
The modifications are necessary to support an extremely large number of grammatical rules and therefore search space , and essentially involve applying classical artificial intelligence algorithms to the traditionally exhaustive search .
In particular , they are used during the calculation of likelihood of a tree ( in Bayesian and maximum likelihood approaches to tree estimation ) and they are used to estimate the evolutionary distance between sequences from the observed differences between the sequences .
Error-driven learning is performed using GeneRec , which is a generalization of the recirculation algorithm , and approximates Almeida-Pineda recurrent backpropagation .
Noë 's idea of the role of ' expectations ' in three-dimensional perception has been opposed by several philosophers , notably by Andy Clark .
The ideas of enactivism regarding how organisms engage with their environment have interested those involved in robotics and Human-computer interaction .
With the emergence of conversational assistants such as Apple 's Siri , Amazon Alexa , Google Assistant , Microsoft Cortana , and Samsung 's Bixby , Voice Portals can now be accessed through mobile devices and Far Field voice smart speakers such as the Amazon Echo and Google Home .
Speech technology is starting to introduce Artificial Intelligence concepts that make it practical
The structure tensor is often used in image processing and computer vision .
Robotics is the branch of technology that deals with the design , construction , operation , structural disposition , manufacture and application of robot s .
As consequence , the correct motion field cannot be determined for certain types of neighborhood and instead an approximation , often referred to as the optical flow , has to be used .
The method of defining the linked list specifies the use of a depth-first search or a breadth-first search first search .
Using signal processing and data fusion techniques such as feature generation , feasibility study and principal component analysis ( PCA ) to analyze such sensory data will greatly improve the positive rate of classifying the motion and contextual relevant status of the device .
A manufacturer of computer vision inspection systems , it is one of several local hi-tech companies created as spinoffs or inspired by research conducted at the Queen 's University of Belfast .Armstrong P.J. and Antonis J. ( 2000 ) .
While there are many manufacturers of 3D computer vision systems , these systems utilize either 3D scanning technologies or a moving camera to measure an object or scene.Pham D.T. and Alcock R.J. ( 2003 ) .
This terminology is most commonly used in Digital Signal Processing and is usually associated with the Fourier series and Fourier Transform sinusoids that involve a duty cycle , math \ alpha / math , and a defined fundamental period , mathT _ o / math .
she has developed methods with applications in demographic studies , machine learning , DNA microarrays , risk modeling , medical imaging , and climate prediction .
Wahba is a member of the National Academy of Sciences , Over the years she has received a selection of notable awards in the statistics community :
Since the introduction of the Semantic Web concept by Tim Berners-Lee in 1999 , there has been growing interest and application of the W3C ( World Wide Web Consortium , W3C ) standards to provide web-scale semantic data exchange , federation , and inferencing capabilities .
Systems for rendering arbitrary views of natural scenes have been well known in the computer vision community for a long time but only in recent years has the speed and quality reached levels that are suitable for serious consideration as an end user system .
Professor Masayuki Tanimoto from Nagoya University ( Japan ) has done much to promote the use of the term " free viewpoint television " and has published many papers on the ray space representation , although other techniques can be , and are used for FTV .
The term " statistical semantics " was first used by Warren Weaver in his well-known paper on machine translation .
Statistical semantics focuses on the meanings of common words and the relations between common words , unlike text mining , which tends to focus on whole documents , document collections , or named entities ( names of people , places , and organizations ) .
Statistical semantics is a subfield of computational semantics , which is in turn a subfield of computational linguistics and natural language processing .
In 1970 Wendy Carlos and Robert Moog built another musical vocoder , a 10-band device inspired by the vocoder designs of Homer Dudley which was later referred to simply as a vocoder .
Carlos and Moog 's vocoder was featured in several recordings , including the soundtrack to Stanley Kubrick ' s " A Clockwork Orange " for the vocal part of Ludwig van Beethoven ' s " Ninth Symphony " and a piece called " Timesteps .
The Omnibot OOM was shaped like a standard Omnibot except with the addition of a spherical head , its remote controller including a basic form of Speech recognition .
In the early 2000s , a gutted Omnibot was used as part of a contestant on the United States television show Battlebots .
The optimal compression technique in multidimensional spaces is Vector Quantization ( VQ ) , implemented through clustering .
Motion analysis is used in computer vision , image processing , high-speed photography and machine vision that studies methods and applications in which two or more consecutive images from an image sequences , e.g. , produced by a video camera or high-speed camera , are processed to produce information based on the apparent motion in the images .
See the section on motion capture for more detail on the technologies .
Human motion capture can be performed in two or three dimensions .
To strengthen a single dissociation , a researcher can establish a " double dissociation , " a term that was introduced by Hans-Lukas Teuber in 1955 .
He has held visiting appointments at Princeton , Northeastern , Auburn , and at overseas universities in Australia , Chile , China , France , Germany , Hong Kong , Italy , Japan , Poland , Singapore , Spain , and South Africa .
He is a Life Fellow of IEEE .
His research contributions cover neural networks , deep learning , data mining with emphasis on data and feature understanding , rule extraction from semantic and visual information , machine learning , decomposition methods for salient feature extraction , and lambda learning rule for neural networks .
Zurada has served the engineering profession as a long-time volunteer of IEEE : as 2014 IEEE Vice-President-Technical Activities ( TAB Chair ) , as President of IEEE Computational Intelligence Society in 2004-05 and the ADCOM member in 2009-14 , 2016-18 and earlier years .
He received five Honorary Professorships from foreign universities , including Sichuan University in Chengdu , China , and Obuda University in Budapest , Hungary .
Since 2005 he has been an elected Foreign Member of the Polish Academy of Sciences .
In machine learning , multi-label classification and the strongly related problem of multi-output classification are variants of the classification problem where multiple labels may be assigned to each instance .
Multi-label classification is a generalization of multiclass classification , which is the single-label problem of categorizing instances into precisely one of more than two classes ; in the multi-label problem there is no constraint on how many of the classes the instance can be assigned to .
Robotix is an annual robotics and programming event that is organised by the Technology Robotix Society at the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur .
Robotix started in 2001 as an in-house event for the students of Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur .
IPRE is designing introductory computer science curricula centered on a Personal Robot .
It is designed to be used through a number of computer languages , include Python , Ruby , and Scheme .
Spelke did her undergraduate studies at Radcliffe College with the child psychologist Jerome Kagan .
Spelke was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1997 .
Spelke was among the strongest critics of Lawrence Summers and in April 2005 faced Steven Pinker in an open debate over the issue .
Version space learning is a logical approach to machine learning , specifically binary classification .
Karl W. Steinbuch ( June 15 , 1917 in Stuttgart-Bad Cannstatt - June 4 , 2005 in Ettlingen ) was a German Computer science , cyberneticist , and electrical engineer .
Steinbuch studied at the University of Stuttgart and in 1944 he received his PhD in physics .
Together with books from colleagues like Jean Ziegler from Switzerland , Eric J. Hobsbawm from UK , and John Naisbitt his books
His dissertation was on the application of information theory to studies of human short-term memory .
He was a Canada Council Senior fellow from 1963 & ndash ; 1964 .
Pylyshyn was professor of psychology and computer science at the University of Western Ontario in London from 1964 until 1994 , where he also held honorary positions in philosophy and electrical engineering and was director of the UWO Center for Cognitive Science .
In 1990 , the Canadian Psychological Association awarded him the Donald O. Hebb Award for " distinguished contributions to psychology as a science .
" He holds fellowships in the American Association for Artificial Intelligence , the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University , the MIT Center for Cognitive Science , the Canadian Institute for Advanced Research , the Canadian Psychological Association , and was elected Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada in 1998 .
He has presided over both the Society for Philosophy and Psychology , and the Cognitive Science Society .
Text simplification is an operation used in natural language processing to modify , enhance , classify or otherwise process an existing corpus of human-readable text in such a way that the grammar and structure of the prose is greatly simplified , while the underlying meaning and information remains the same .
AOI can be used in the following locations in the SMT lines : post paste , pre-reflow , post-reflow , or wave areas .
Given a large enough variety of such nonlinear functions , it is theoretically possible to obtain linear combinations ( using the read out units ) to perform whatever mathematical operation is needed to perform a certain task , such as speech recognition or computer vision .
Genetic algorithm s have increasingly been applied to economics since the pioneering work by John H. Miller in 1986 .
Eric Paulos is an United States computer scientist , artist ( working in new media art ) , and inventor , best known for his early work on internet robotic teleoperation and is considered a founder of the field of Urban Computing , coining the term " urban computing " in 2004 .
Previously , Dr. Paulos held the Cooper-Siegel Associate Professor Chair in the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University where he was faculty within the Human-Computer Interaction Institute with courtesy faculty appointments in the Robotics Institute and in the Entertainment Technology Center .
His published work is primarily in the areas of Robotics , Urban Computing , Human-Computer Interaction , Computer supported cooperative work , and Ubicomp .
Born and raised in California , Eric received a B.S. , M.S. , and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from the University of California , Berkeley , completing his Ph.D. in 2001 .
In his later years at Cambridge he became interested in the brain and the new field of artificial intelligence .
As a consequence , in 1967 , he made a major change in his career by moving to the University of Edinburgh to co-found the Department of Machine intelligence and perception , with Richard Gregory and Donald Michie .
In 1981 he introduced the essential matrix to the computer vision community in a paper which also included the eight-point algorithm for the estimation of this matrix .
Among his notable prizes were the Jasper Ridley prize in music from Balliol College , Oxford , the Harrison memorial prize from the Chemical Society , and the Naylor prize from the London Mathematical Society .
The first quasi-Newton algorithm was proposed by William C. Davidon , a physicist working at Argonne National Laboratory .
Stephen H. Muggleton FBCS , FIET , Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence ,
Muggleton received his Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science ( 1982 ) and Doctor of Philosophy in Artificial Intelligence ( 1986 ) supervised by Donald Michie at the University of Edinburgh .
Following his PhD , Muggleton went on to work as a postdoctoral research associate at the Turing Institute in Glasgow ( 1987-1991 ) and later an EPSRC Advanced Research Fellow at Oxford University Computing Laboratory ( OUCL ) ( 1992-1997 ) where he founded the Machine Learning Group .
" The Meme Machine " ( 2000 ) is a popular science book by British psychologist Susan Blackmore on the subject of meme s .
In computer vision , the essential matrix is a math 3 \ times 3 / math matrix , math \ mathbf { E } / math , with some additional properties described below , which relates corresponding points in stereo images assuming that the cameras satisfy the pinhole camera model .
Rprop , short for resilient backpropagation , is a learning heuristic for supervised learning in feedforward artificial neural network s .
Many different technologies are used in people counting devices , such as infrared beams , thermal imaging , computer vision , and WiFi counting .
Computer vision works via an embedded device , reducing the network bandwidth usage , as only the number of people must be sent over the network .
Chinese speech synthesis is the application of speech synthesis to the Chinese language ( usually Standard Chinese ) .
Recordings can be concatenated in any desired combination , but the joins sound forced ( as is usual for simple concatenation-based speech synthesis ) and this can severely affect prosody ; these synthesizers are also inflexible in terms of speed and expression .
The lightweight open-source speech project eSpeak , which has its own approach to synthesis , has experimented with Mandarin and Cantonese. eSpeak was used by Google Translate from May 20102010 .
Yuet claims a built-in Natural language processing model that does not require a separate dictionary ; the speech synthesised by the engine claims clear word boundaries and emphasis on appropriate words .
MBROLA is speech synthesis software as a worldwide collaborative project .
The MBROLA software is not a complete speech synthesis system for all those languages ; the text must first be transformed into phoneme and prosodic information in MBROLA 's format , and separate software ( e.g. eSpeakNG ) is necessary .
MBROLA project started in 1995 at TCTS Lab of the Faculté polytechnique de Mons ( Belgium ) as a scientific project to obtain a set of speech synthesizers for as many languages as possible .
Due to its free usage only for non-commercial applications , MBROLA was as alternative choice for private / home users for de facto speech synthesis engine eSpeakNG in Linux workstations , but mostly was not used for commercial solutions ( e.g. for speaking time clocks , boarding notifications for ports and terminals etc .
The robot kit is Android-based , and it is programmed using Java , the Blocks programming interface , or other Android programming systems .
Leonardo da Vinci ( 1452-1519 ) may have been the first in Europe to recognize certain special optical qualities of the eye .
The " natural " gradient of mathE f ( x ) / math , complying with the Fisher information metric ( an informational distance measure between probability distributions and the curvature of the relative entropy ) , now reads
An empirical whitening transform is obtained by estimating the covariance ( e.g. by maximum likelihood ) and subsequently constructing a corresponding estimated whitening matrix ( e.g. by Cholesky decomposition ) .
An implementation of several whitening procedures in R , including ZCA-whitening and PCA whitening but also CCA whitening , is available in the " whitening " R package published on CRAN .
In data mining , anomaly detection ( also outlier detection
Instead , a cluster analysis algorithm may be able to detect the micro clusters formed by these patterns .
In supervised learning , removing the anomalous data from the dataset often results in a statistically significant increase in accuracy .
It was produced in the 1980s by Nimstec Atlanta , Georgia , United States , and manufactured by Timex in Dundee , Scotland .
Later cameras were built by Sunpak in Japan .
Jerry Nims received one of the ten outstanding engineering achievements in the United States for the Nimslo Three-Dimensional Photographic System at the 17th Annual Competition of the National Society of Professional Engineers in 1983 .
The operation was controlled by billionaire Fredrik Olsen , head of the .
This update rule is in fact the stochastic gradient descent update for linear regression .
The PRS concept was developed by the Artificial Intelligence Center at SRI International during the 1980s , by many workers including Michael Georgeff , Amy L. Lansky , and François Félix Ingrand .
However , in South Africa and India , SOS Children benefited from the help of partners such as the Shuttleworth Foundation and the Hole in the Wall .
The technology draws on several disciplines , including transport engineering , electrical engineering , automotive engineering , and computer science .
In the United States , for example , an Interstate is a Federal roadway that is often maintained by the State , but the local county or municipal authorities may be involved too .
The pattern playback is an early talking device that was built by Dr. Franklin S. Cooper and his colleagues , including John M. Borst and Caryl Haskins , at Haskins Laboratories in the late 1940s and completed in 1950 .
Using this device , Alvin Liberman , Frank Cooper , and Pierre Delattre ( later joined by Katherine Safford Harris , Leigh Lisker , and others ) were able to discover acoustic cues for the perception of phonetic segments ( consonants and vowels ) .
This research was fundamental to the development of modern techniques of speech synthesis , reading machine s for the blind , the study of speech perception and speech recognition , and the development of the motor theory of speech perception .
The pattern playback now resides in the Museum at Haskins Laboratories in New Haven , Connecticut .
In early prototype was developed at Haskins Laboratories which combined a " Ubiquitous Spectrum Analyzer " for automatic spectral analysis , along with a VAX GT-40 display processor for graphic manipulation of the displayed spectrogram , a form of " synthesis by art , " and subsequent re-synthesis using a 40 channel filter bank .
This hybrid hardware / software digital pattern playback was eventually replaced at Haskins Laboratories by the HADES software system , designed by Philip Rubin , and implemented in Fortran on the VAX family of computers .
RNNs are also related to artificial neural network s , which ( like the random neural network ) have gradient-based Machine learning s .
The learning algorithm for an n-node random neural network that includes feedback loops ( it is also a recurrent neural network ) is of computational complexity O ( n ^ 3 ) ( the number of computations is proportional to the cube of n , the number of neurons ) .
The random neural network can also be used with other learning algorithm s such as reinforcement learning .
Another example of pretext was demonstrated in the speeches of the Roman orator Cato the Elder ( 234-149 BC ) .
The early years of Japan 's Tokugawa shogunate were unsettled , with warring factions battling for power .
A more general problem is that , as Steven Pinker ( 1995 ) notes , almost every sentence anybody voices is an original combination of words , never previously uttered , therefore a language cannot consist only of word combinations learned through repetition and conditioning ; the brain must contain innate means of creating endless amounts of grammatical sentences from a limited vocabulary .
Although Stephen Krashen ( 1975 ) also criticises this theory , he does not deny the importance of age for second-language acquisition .
The term " language acquisition " became commonly used after Stephen Krashen contrasted it with formal and non-constructive " learning .
For example , Steven Pinker and Paul Bloom argue that because a language is a complex design that serves a specific function that cannot be replaced by any other existing capacity , the trait of language acquisition can be attributed to natural selection .
Supervised learning is a mechanism by which an artificial neural network can learn by receiving a number of inputs with a correct output already known .
An example of an artificial neural network that uses supervised learning is a multilayer perceptron ( MLP ) .
In unsupervised learning , an artificial neural network is trained using only inputs .
evolutionary computation is used to optimize artificial neural networks and gene regulatory networks , a common technique being the genetic algorithm .
A popular application for serial robots in today 's industry is the pick-and-place assembly robot , called a SCARA robot , which has four degrees of freedom .
A parallel manipulator is a mechanical system that uses several serial manipulator s to support a single platform , or end-effector .
Also known as parallel robots , or generalized Stewart platforms ( in the Stewart platform , the actuators are paired together on both the basis and the platform ) , these systems are articulated robot s that use similar mechanisms for the movement of either the robot on its base , or one or more manipulator arms .
Their ' parallel ' distinction , as opposed to a serial manipulator , is that the end effector ( or ' hand ' ) of this linkage ( or ' arm ' ) is directly connected to its base by a number of ( usually three or six ) separate and independent linkages working simultaneously .
A parallel manipulator is designed so that each chain is usually short , simple and can thus be rigid against unwanted movement , compared to a serial manipulator .
Delta robot s have base-mounted rotary actuator s that move a light , stiff , parallelogram arm .
Two examples of popular parallel robots are the Stewart platform and the Delta robot .
It comes with 3 Java games that are controlled with the remote control and displayed to its LCD screen .
In reference to the philosophy behind the ' hackability ' of the robots , Tilden once said , " Years ago some bright Artificial intelligence lads asked if I could build a competent humanoid cradle into which they could put their smart programs .
The RS Media was released in October 2006 in Australia and the UK .
High-level analysis using object recognition and other techniques can intelligently track objects ( such as people or cars ) through a scene , and even determine what they are doing so that certain activities could be automatically brought to the operator 's attention .
The publication was founded in 1997 by the IEEE Neural Networks Council , with David B. Fogel as founding editor-in-chief ( 1997-2002 ) .
In image processing , elongatedness for a region is the ratio between the length and width of the minimum bounding rectangle of the region .
Nathan studied mathematics and computer science at Stanford University , specializing in user interface design and artificial intelligence , with Douglas Lenat as graduate advisor .
Nathan collaborated with Robby Garner and the Italian researcher Luigi Caputo , President of Alma Research Centre , on one of the first web chatterbot s , named " Barry DeFacto " , in 1995 .
In natural language processing , language identification or language guessing is the problem of determining which natural language given content is in .
Do repeated translations converge on a single expression in both languages ? I.e. does the translation method show stationarity or produce a canonical form ? Does the translation become stationary without losing the original meaning ? This metric has been criticized as not being well correlated with BLEU ( BiLingual Evaluation Understudy ) scores .
Heath Ledger is dead = =
" Tom Cruise está muerto "
It is not known whether this feature of Google Translate was the result of a joke / hack or perhaps an unintended consequence of the use of a method such as statistical machine translation .
If it is an unintended consequence of the use of a method such as statistical machine translation , and not a joke / hack , then this event is a demonstration of a potential source of critical unreliability in the statistical machine translation method .
The project is a combination of several branches of engineering ( mechanics , computer science , automation , electronics ) , and in March 2007 it was presented in its second version , under the name of I2Project .
Fred Chatterbot is designed to explore Natural language processing communications between people and computer programs .
The John Lennon Artificial Intelligence Project is a chatterbot designed to simulate a conversation with John Lennon .
Terminology extraction ( also known as term extraction , glossary extraction , term recognition , or terminology mining ) is a subtask of information extraction .
Typically , approaches to automatic term extraction make use of linguistic processors ( part of speech tagging , phrase chunking ) to extract terminological candidates , i.e. syntactically plausible terminological noun phrase s .
Terminological entries are then filtered from the candidate list using statistical and machine learning methods .
Furthermore , terminology extraction is a very useful starting point for semantic similarity , knowledge management , human translation and machine translation , etc .
Mark Jerome Steedman , British Academy , FRSE ( born 18 September 1946 ) is a Computational linguistics and cognitive scientist .
He has held visiting positions at the University of Texas at Austin , the Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics , Nijmegen , and the University of Pennsylvania , Philadelphia .
Steedman currently holds the Chair of Cognitive Science in the University of Edinburgh School of Informatics at the University of Edinburgh ( 1998- ) .
Application- and tools-developers can embed predictive and descriptive mining capabilities using PL / SQL or Java API s .
ODM offers a choice of well-known machine learning approaches such as Decision tree learning , Naive Bayes , Support vector machine s , Generalized linear model ( GLM ) for predictive mining , Association rules , K-means and Orthogonal Partitioning
Cluster analysis , and Non-negative matrix factorization for descriptive mining .
Most Oracle Data Mining functions also allow text mining by accepting text ( unstructured data ) attributes as input .
As of release 11gR1 Oracle Data Mining contains the following data mining functions :
Users can access Oracle Data Mining through Oracle Data Miner , a GUI client application that provides access to the data mining functions and structured templates ( called Mining Activities ) that automatically prescribe the order of operations , perform required data transformations , and set model parameters .
The user interface also allows the automated generation of Java and / or SQL code associated with the data-mining activities .
Oracle Data Mining also supports a Java API consistent with the Java Data Mining ( JDM ) standard for data mining ( JSR-73 ) for enabling integration with web and Java EE applications and to facilitate portability across platforms .
A computer program usually determines mathematical landmarks used for an automatic pattern recognition .
Blake was educated at Rugby School and supervised by Donald Michie .
From 2015-2018 he was Director at the Alan Turing Institute .
In 2006 Zon and Roerdink , at the National Aerospace Laboratory in the Netherlands , examined the use of direct voice input in the " GRACE " simulator , in an experiment in which twelve pilots participated .
It involves data capture and extraction ( optical character recognition ) from paper and electronic documents , integration with company 's existing ERP system and routing to company agents for approvals and problem resolution via workflow .
ClearForest was an Israel i software company that developed and marketed text analytics and text mining solutions .
The Cognitive Engineering side can be characterized by the terms visual analytics , human-computer interaction ( HCI ) , cognitive workload , and human error .
Scott Atran ( born February 6 , 1952 ) is an American-French cultural anthropologist who is Emeritus Director of Research in Anthropology at the Centre national de la recherche scientifique in Paris , Research Professor at the University of Michigan , and cofounder of ARTIS International and of the .
While a student , he became assistant to anthropologist Margaret Mead at the American Museum of Natural History .
Atran has taught at Cambridge University , Hebrew University in Jerusalem , the École pratique des hautes études and École Polytechnique in Paris , and John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York City .
Cognitive psychologist Steven Pinker summarizes some of Atran 's findings thus :
Malsburg and Schneider proposed a neural network model with oscillators to represent features of different streams ( synchronized and desynchronized ) .ref name = " vdm " Von der Malsburg , C. , Schneider , W. ( 1986 ) .
The techniques utilized in music scene analysis can also be applied to speech recognition , and other environmental sounds.ref name = " masudak " Masuda-Katsuse , I ( 2001 ) .
Industrial robot s , including painting ones , were created to keep people out of " dangerous " jobs as well as increase productivity .
On this view of concepts - that they are purely representational constructs - a new question then comes to the fore : " Why do we possess one set of concepts rather than another ? " What makes one set of concepts " good " and another set of concepts " bad " ? This is a question that modern philosophers , and subsequently machine learning theorists and cognitive scientists , have struggled with for many decades .
with an adjustable step length math \ displaystyle \ alpha / math and performs a line search in this direction until it reaches the minimum of math \ displaystyle f / math :
Blind equalization is a digital signal processing technique in which the transmitted signal is inferred ( equalized ) from the received signal , while making use only of the transmitted signal statistics .
As a result , machine translation ( MT ) intended to serve as a solution for preventing ER from potentially replacing reporters ' jobs .
CAD also has potential future applications in digital pathology with the advent of whole-slide imaging and machine learning algorithms .
CAD is an interdisciplinary technology combining elements of artificial intelligence and computer vision with radiological and pathology image processing .
Thus , by the late 1980s and early 1990s the focus sifted in the use of data mining approaches for the purpose of using more advanced and flexible CAD systems .
CAD is fundamentally based on highly complex pattern recognition .
image segmentation " for
Basic three sub-steps on medical imaging are segmentation , feature extraction / selection and classification .
The measured performance on test data of eight naive WSI across various tauopathies resulted in the recall , precision , and an F1 score of 0.92 , 0.72 , and 0.81 , respectively .
Eigenbrain is a novel brain feature that can help to detect AD , based on Principal Component Analysis
While working at the Ford Motor Company Flat Rock Casting Plant , Williams was killed by an industrial robot arm on January 25 , 1979 .
Such targets include natural objects such as ground , sea , precipitation ( such as rain , snow or hail ) , sand storm s , animals ( especially birds ) , atmospheric turbulence , and other atmospheric effects , such as ionosphere reflections , meteor trails , and three body scatter spike .
In signal processing , the multitaper method is a techniqueThomson , D. J. ( 1982 ) " Spectrum estimation and harmonic analysis .
Information theory achievability proofs result in conditions under which the existence of a well-performing coding scheme is guaranteed .
We transform the probability distributions related to a given hidden Markov model into matrix notation as follows .
Shogun is a free , open-source machine learning software library written in C + + .
It offers numerous algorithms and data structures for machine learning problems .
It offers interfaces for Octave , Python , R , Java , Lua , Ruby and C # using SWIG .
The focus of " Shogun " is on kernel machines such as support vector machine s for regression and classification problems .
" Shogun " also offers a full implementation of Hidden Markov model s .
The core of " Shogun " is written in C + + and offers interfaces for MATLAB , Octave , Python , R , Java , Lua , Ruby and C # .
Technically this requires a combination of methods from the fields of signal processing , auditory modelling , music perception and cognition , pattern recognition , and machine learning , as well as more traditional methods of artificial intelligence for musical knowledge representation .
Like computer vision versus image processing , computer audition versus audio engineering deals with understanding of audio rather than processing .
It also differs from problems of speech recognition since it deals with general audio signals , such as natural sounds and musical recordings .
While Professor Anna Maria Di Sciullo claims that the interdisciplinary research of biology and linguistics in the 1950s-1960s led to the rise of biolinguistics .
Based on a feature extraction method , it reads images in portable pixmap formats known as Portable anymap and produces text in byte ( 8-bit ) or UTF-8 formats .
Progol is Stephen Muggleton ' s implementation of inductive logic programming used in computer science that combines " Inverse Entailment " with " general-to-specific search " through a refinement graph .
A logarithmic number system ( LNS ) is an arithmetic system used for representing real number s in computer and digital hardware , especially for digital signal processing .
Nicholas Kingsbury and Peter Rayner introduced " logarithmic arithmetic " for digital signal processing ( DSP ) in 1971 .
This step can be performed in several ways ; centers can be randomly sampled from some set of examples , or they can be determined using k-means clustering .
Note that this step is unsupervised learning .
A third optional backpropagation step can be performed to fine-tune all of the RBF net 's parameters .
Another possible training algorithm is gradient descent .
The Mean squared error is 0.15 .
The Mean squared error on a test set of 100 exemplars is 0.084 , smaller than the unnormalized error .
The latter example specifies using a specific algorithm for logistic regression .
Although not perfect , the pandemonium architecture influenced the development of modern connectionist , artificial intelligence , and word recognition models .
The pandemonium architecture was originally developed by Oliver Selfridge in the late 1950s .
Moreover , this architecture is capable of learning , similar to a back-propagation styled neural network .
Automated species identification is a method of making the expertise of taxonomists available to ecologists , parataxonomists and others via digital technology and artificial intelligence .
" However , recent developments in computer architectures , as well as innovations in software design , have placed the tools needed to realize Janzen 's vision in the hands of the systematics and computer science community not in several years hence , but now ; and not just for creating DNA barcode s , but also for identification based on digital images .
The program was hosted by Grant Imahara .
The family of " Yager t-norms " , introduced in the early 1980s by Ronald R. Yager , is given for 0 ≤ " p " ≤ + ∞ by
The robots will have artificial neural network s .
The scheme for 2.5 million euros is financed by the European Commission ( the executive body of the European Union ) and is set to last for three years .
HHMMs and HMMs are useful in many fields , including pattern recognition .
Eugênio de Castro is a municipality of the northern part of the state of Rio Grande do Sul , Brazil .
Digital graffiti is the act of creating graffiti art using a computer vision system .
A specially adapted spray can emits IR light instead of paint , which is then tracked by a computer vision system to recreate the " sprayed " image onto the wall using a projector .
For example , the American Geophysical Union ( AGU ) adopted their first policy on data archiving in 1993 , about three years after the beginning of the WWW .
The British Digital Curation Centre maintains an overview of funder 's data policies .
Once such distances have been calculated for a set of observations ( e.g. individuals in a cohort ) classical tools ( such as cluster analysis ) can be used .
Kripke attributes variants of descriptivist theories to Gottlob Frege , Bertrand Russell , Ludwig Wittgenstein and John Searle , among others .
Before Kripke gave his ' Naming and Necessity ' lectures , a number of criticisms of this descriptivist theory had been published by leading philosophers , including Ludwig Wittgenstein , John Searle and Peter Strawson .
Business intelligence is Information retrieval , report ing , online analytical processing ( OLAP ) , and " alerts .
Analytics have been used in business since the management exercises were put into place by Frederick Winslow Taylor in the late 19th century .
Henry Ford measured the time of each component in his newly established assembly line .
From the information theory perspective , the problem is to explain how information is encoded and decoded by a series of trains of pulses , i.e. action potentials .
This avoids the additional complexity of a recurrent neural network ( RNN ) .
Further pulse training is not differentiable , eliminating backpropagation -based training methods like gradient descent .
Simulations show that arrays of ferroelectric nanosynapses can autonomously learn to recognize patterns in a predictable way , opening the path towards unsupervised learning .
William Fetter was credited with coining the term " computer graphics " in 1961
Popular methods include keyframing , inverse kinematics , and motion capture ) .
Match moving software is commonly used to match live video with computer-generated video , keeping the two in sync as the camera moves .
Research work has been going on in several disciplines , including artificial intelligence , neural networks , and engineering .
The forward plan for FIND included the addition of facial recognition software ( much like the United States ' FERET database ) to the system .
He is an advisor to the Machine Intelligence Research Institute on artificial intelligence .
From 1986 to 1988 , he was an Assistant Professor of Computer science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and cofounded the Center for Complex Systems Research with Stephen Wolfram and Norman Packard .
Omohundro has sat on the Machine Intelligence Research Institute board of advisors .
Brazil , Canada , China , Colombia , Ecuador , Egypt , Ethiopia , England , France , Ghana , Greece , Hong Kong , Hungary , India , Kenya , Lebanon , Macau , Malawi , Mexico , Morocco , Nigeria , Philippines , Saudi Arabia , Singapore , South Africa , South Korea , Taiwan , and UAE .
Oishi and Tanabe claimed that the Kantorovich theorem can be applied to obtain reliable solutions of linear programming .
It is the United States ' member organization of the International Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing .
To estimate what kind of warping has taken place between consecutive images , one can use optical flow estimation techniques .
The fusion methods such as averaging , Brovey method , principal component analysis ( Principal component analysis ) and IHS based methods fall under spatial domain approaches .
Born in Greece , she went to the United States to pursue advanced education through various scholarships , including a Fulbright ( 1965-1969 ) .
She received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics from Brown University , M.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee , and Ph.D. in Computer Science from Georgia Institute of Technology .
She was awarded an Honorary Doctorate from the University of the Aegean in 2004 .
Sycara is a pioneer in the field of semantic web , case-based reasoning , autonomous agent s and multi-agent systems .
She has authored or co-authored more than 700 technical papers dealing with multi-agent systems , software agents , web services , semantic web , human-computer interaction , human-robot interaction , negotiation , case-based reasoning and the application of these techniques to crisis action planning , scheduling , manufacturing , healthcare management , financial planning and e-commerce .
Sycara is a Fellow of Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers ( IEEE ) , and a Fellow of American Association for Artificial Intelligence ( AAAI ) .
Sycara is the recipient of the 2002 Association for Computing Machinery / SIGART Agents Research Award .
In 2008 , her robotic team placed third in the Worldwide Robocup Championship Competition in the Urban Search and Rescue Virtual robots League held in Beijing , China .
Sycara served as the program chair of the Second International Semantic Web Conference ( ISWC 2003 ) ; general chair , of the Second International Conference on Autonomous Agents ( Agents 98 ) ; chair of the Steering Committee of the Agents Conference ( 1999-2001 ) ; scholarship chair of AAAI ( 1993-1999 ) ;
Richard Vatz discourse on creation of rhetorical meaning relates directly to framing , although he references it little .
Todd Gitlin , in his analysis of how the news media trivialized the student New Left movement during the 1960s , was among the first to examine media frames from a sociological perspective .
Although the idea of language-framing had been explored earlier by Kenneth Burke ( terministic screens ) , political communication researcher Jim A. Kuypers first published work advancing frame analysis ( framing analysis ) as a rhetorical perspective in 1997 .
John Muir , also from the late 19th century , advocated for the preservation of Earth for its own sake , establishing the Sierra Club .
Greta Thunberg , a young Swedish woman , founded the initiative Fridays for Future which now has active chapters in scores of countries around the world .
Other active youth-led climate groups include Extinction Rebellion , the Sunrise Movement , SustainUS , the , among others working at both the transnational and local levels .
In " Bush 's War : Media Bias and Justifications for War in a Terrorist Age , " Jim A. Kuypers , " Bush 's War : Media Bias and Justifications for War in a Terrorist Age " ( Lanham , MD : Rowman and Littlefield , 2006 ) , Jim A. Kuypers examined the differences in framing of the War on Terror between the Bush administration and the U.S. mainstream news media between 2001 and 2005 .
Sheldon Rampton and John Stauber in " Trust Us , We 're Experts " illustrate how public-relations ( PR ) firms often use language to help frame a given issue , structuring the questions that then subsequently emerge .
The Human-Computer Interaction Lab ( HCIL ) at the University of Maryland , College Park is one of the oldest and longest running Human-computer interaction labs in the world .
The HCIL is an interdisciplinary lab with faculty and students from Information Studies , Computer Science , Education , English , Business , and Psychology .
Based on Fisher 's linear discriminant model , this data set became a typical test case for many statistical classification techniques in machine learning such as support vector machines .
The use of this data set in cluster analysis however is not common , since the data set only contains two clusters with rather obvious separation .
This makes the data set a good example to explain the difference between supervised and unsupervised techniques in data mining : Fisher 's linear discriminant model can only be obtained when the object species are known : class labels and clusters are not necessarily the same .
The following Python code illustrates usage .
Sándor Gujdár ( born 8 November 1951 in Szentes , Hungary ) is a former Hungary football goalkeeper .
Allen 's interval algebra is a calculus for temporal reasoning that was introduced by James F. Allen in 1983 .
The theory of graph cuts used as an optimization method was first applied in computer vision in the seminal paper by Greig , Porteous and SeheultD.M. Greig , B.T. Porteous and A.H. Seheult ( 1989 ) , " also notable as the first ever female member of staff of the Durham Mathematical Sciences Department .
In computer science , the maximum sum subarray problem is the task of finding a contiguous subarray with the largest sum , within a given one-dimensional array A 1 ... n of numbers .
The maximum subarray problem was proposed by Ulf Grenander in 1977 as a simplified model for maximum likelihood estimation of patterns in digitized images .
Maximum subarray problems arise in many fields , such as genomic sequence analysis and computer vision .
In computer vision , maximum-subarray algorithms are used on bitmap images to detect the brightest area in an image .
Thus , the problem can be solved with the following code , expressed here in Python :
Because of the way this algorithm uses optimal substructures ( the maximum subarray ending at each position is calculated in a simple way from a related but smaller and overlapping subproblem : the maximum subarray ending at the previous position ) this algorithm can be viewed as a simple / trivial example of dynamic programming .
The National Science Foundation was an umbrella for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration ( NASA ) , the US Department of Energy , the US Department of Commerce NIST , the US Department of Defense , Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency ( DARPA ) , and the Office of Naval Research coordinated studies to inform strategic planners in their deliberations .
State-action-reward-state-action ( SARSA ) is an algorithm for learning a Markov decision process policy , used in the reinforcement learning area of machine learning .
Watkin 's Q-learning updates an estimate of the optimal state-action value function mathQ ^ * / math based on the maximum reward of available actions .
While SARSA learns the Q values associated with taking the policy it follows itself , Watkin 's Q-learning learns the Q values associated with taking the optimal policy while following an Reinforcement learning policy .
Perhaps the first mention of " robotoid " was in the " Lost in Space " episode " War of the Robots " which originally aired on February 9 , 1966 and credits Robby the Robot as a " robotoid " and William Bramley and Ollie O 'Toole as uncredited " robotoid voice " actors .
According to Peter Beter in his May 28 , 1979 " Dr. Peter David Better Audio Letter " # 46 series of audiobook s , organic robotoid technology is being made to make nearly exact copies of important people .
Forest Hills is a neighborhood in east Dallas , Texas ( United States ) .
The concept of reservoir computing stems from the use of recursive connections within neural network s to create a complex dynamical system .
Two kinds of dynamical system were described : a recurrent neural network with fixed random weights , and a continuous reaction-diffusion system inspired by Alan Turing " s model of morphogenesis .
The extension of the reservoir computing framework towards Deep Learning , with the introduction of Deep Reservoir Computing and of the Deep Echo State Network ( DeepESN ) model allows to develop efficiently trained models for hierarchical processing of temporal data , at the same time enabling the investigation on the inherent role of layered composition in recurrent neural network s .
LSTM was proposed in 1997 by Sepp Hochreiter and Jürgen Schmidhuber .
In 1999 , Felix Gers and his advisor Jürgen Schmidhuber and Fred Cummins introduced the forget gate ( also called " keep gate " ) into LSTM architecture ,
In theory , classic ( or " vanilla " ) Recurrent neural network can keep track of arbitrary long-term dependencies in the input sequences .
The problem of vanilla RNNs is computational ( or practical ) in nature : when training a vanilla RNN using back-propagation , the gradients which are back-propagated can " vanish " ( that is , they can tend to zero ) or " explode " ( that is , they can tend to infinity ) , because of the computations involved in the process , which use finite-precision numbers .
The activation function of the LSTM " gates " is often the logistic sigmoid function .
The weights of these connections , which need to be learned during Supervised learning , determine how the gates operate .
Peephole Convolutional neural network LSTM .
An RNN using LSTM units can be trained in a supervised fashion , on a set of training sequences , using an optimization algorithm , like gradient descent , combined with backpropagation through time to compute the gradients needed during the optimization process , in order to change each weight of the LSTM network in proportion to the derivative of the error ( at the output layer of the LSTM network ) with respect to corresponding weight .
A problem with using gradient descent for standard RNNs is that error gradients vanish exponentially quickly with the size of the time lag between important events .
In 2018 , Bill Gates called it a " huge milestone in advancing artificial intelligence " when bots developed by OpenAI were able to beat humans in the game of Dota 2 .
The primary motivation for employing lazy learning , as in the K-nearest neighbors algorithm , used by online recommendation system s ( " people who viewed / purchased / listened to this movie / item / tune also ... " ) is that the data set is continuously updated with new entries ( e.g. , new items for sale at Amazon , new movies to view at Netflix , new clips at YouTube , new music at Spotify or Pandora ) .
This approach , used by large e-commerce or media sites , has long been used in the Entrez portal of the National Center for Biotechnology Information ( NCBI ) to precompute similarities between the different items in its large datasets : biological sequences , 3-D protein structures , published-article abstracts , etc .
VOM models have been successfully applied to areas such as machine learning , information theory and bioinformatics , including specific applications such as coding and data compression , and others .
The National Centre for Text Mining ( NaCTeM ) is a publicly funded text mining ( TM ) centre .
NaCTeM contributes expertise in natural language processing and information extraction , including named-entity recognition and extractions of complex relationships ( or events ) that hold between named entitites , along with parallel and distributed data mining systems in biomedical and clinical applications .
Info-PubMed provides information and graphical representation of biomedical interactions extracted from Medline using deep semantic parsing technology .
This is a collaboration with the Text-Mining group at the European Bioinformatics Institute ( EBI ) and Mimas ( data centre ) , forming a work package in the Europe PubMed Central project ( formerly UKPMC ) hosted and coordinated by the British Library .
" Robop " is short for robotics bird of prey .
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals ( PETA ) in the UK have applauded the initiative as a means to get away from attempts to poison and starve pigeons , citing the eradication program in London under Mayor Ken Livingstone .
For example , for the purposes of statistical geography , the Australian Bureau of Statistics uses the Australian Standard Geographical Classification , a hierarchical regionalisation that divides Australia up into states and territories , then statistical divisions , statistical subdivisions , statistical local areas , and finally census collection districts .
Software mining is closely related to data mining , since existing software artifacts contain enormous business value , key for the evolution of software systems .
For example , color image segmentation of :
GemIdent uses supervised learning to perform automated
These scores are then used to build a random forest machine-learning classifier which will then classify pixels in any given image .
In an agricultural operation involving grape s in Japan , end effectors are used for harvesting , berry-thinning , spraying , and bagging .
This research is based on the advancements made in driver-assist systems and Autonomous car .
Farber 's Nerve was programmed alongside Who I Am And What I Want by David Shrigley and Chris Shepherd in the 2006 Manhattan Short Film Festival world tour , which spanned 137 screenings across the United States , Canada , the UK , and Europe .
James Hiram Morris ( born 1941 ) is a professor of Computer Science .
He was previously dean of the Carnegie Mellon School of Computer Science and Dean of Carnegie Mellon Silicon Valley .
A native of Pittsburgh , Morris received a Bachelor 's degree from Carnegie Mellon University , an S.M. in Management from the MIT Sloan School of Management , and Ph.D. in Computer Science from MIT .
Typically , the process starts by terminology extraction and concepts or noun phrase s from plain text using linguistic processors such as part-of-speech tagging and phrase chunking .
During the domain terminology extraction step , domain-specific terms are extracted , which are used in the following step ( concept discovery ) to derive concepts .
In the subsequent step , similarly to coreference resolution in information extraction , the OL system determines synonyms , because they share the same meaning and therefore correspond to the same concept .
For example , a maximum entropy rate criterion may be used for feature selection in machine learning .
Babylon is a computer dictionary and translation program developed by the Israel i company Babylon Software Ltd. based in the city of Or Yehuda .
In 1995 , Israel i entrepreneur Amnon Ovadia began a project for an online English- Hebrew dictionary which would not interrupt the reading process .
The program also uses a text-to-speech agent so users hear the proper pronunciation of words and text .
Gordon Lyon , the developer of Nmap , criticized the decision .
LOLITA is a natural language processing system developed by Durham University between 1986 and 2000 .
The name is an acronym for " Large-scale , Object-based , Linguistic Interactor , Machine translation and Analyzer .
In digital signal processing , a digital down-converter ( DDC ) converts a digitized , band limited signal to a lower frequency signal at a lower sampling rate in order to simplify the subsequent radio stages .
Today , computational lexicology is best known through the creation and applications of WordNet .
WordNet can be considered to be such a development , as can the newer efforts at describing syntactic and semantic information such as the FrameNet work of Fillmore .
Optimizing the production , maintenance and extension of computational lexicons is one of the crucial aspects impacting Natural language processing .
Optimization techniques of operations research such as linear programming or dynamic programming are often impractical for large scale software engineering problems because of their computational complexity .
These models extend the widely used position weight matrix ( PWM ) models , Markov model s , and Bayesian network ( BN ) models .
The ASEA IRB is an industrial robot series for material handling , packing , transportation , polishing , welding , and grading .
The ASEA IRB was constructed by Björn Weichbrodt , Ove Kullborg , Bengt Nilsson and Herbert Kaufmann and was manufactured by ASEA in Sweden / Västerås .
It became the Sweden symbol for a new Labour market , shared between man and robot .
General Architecture for Text Engineering or GATE is a Java suite of tools originally developed at the University of Sheffield beginning in 1995 and now used worldwide by a wide community of scientists , companies , teachers and students for many natural language processing tasks , including information extraction in many languages.Languages mentioned on Russian .
GATE has been compared to NLTK , R and RapidMiner .
GATE includes an information extraction system called ANNIE ( A Nearly-New Information Extraction System ) which is a set of modules comprising a tokenizer , a gazetteer , a sentence splitter , a Part-of-speech tagging , a Named entity recognition transducer and a coreference tagger .
ANNIE can be used as-is to provide basic information extraction functionality , or provide a starting point for more specific tasks .
Plugins are included for machine learning with Weka , RASP , MAXENT , SVM Light , as well as a LIBSVM integration and an in-house perceptron implementation , for managing ontologies like WordNet , for querying search engines like Google or Yahoo , for part of speech tagging with Brill or TreeTagger , and many more .
Unlike most other machine learning methods , HTM continuously learns ( in an Unsupervised learning process ) time-based patterns in unlabeled data .
HTM is also related to work by Tomaso Poggio , including an approach for modeling the ventral stream of the visual cortex known as HMAX .
Neocognitron , a hierarchical multilayered neural network proposed by Professor Kunihiko Fukushima in 1987 , is one of the first Deep Learning Neural Networks models .
An acoustic model is used in automatic speech recognition to represent the relationship between an audio signal and the phonemes or other linguistic units that make up speech .
Modern speech recognition systems use both an acoustic model and a language model to represent the statistical properties of speech .
Recently , the use of Convolutional neural network has led to big improvements in acoustic modeling .
In speech technology , speech corpora are used , among other things , to create acoustic model s ( which can then be used with a speech recognition engine ) .
This article focuses on the evaluation of the output of machine translation , rather than on performance or usability evaluation .
The NIST metric is based on the BLEU metric , but with some alterations .
Where BLEU simply calculates n-gram precision adding equal weight to each one , NIST also calculates how informative a particular n-gram is .
NIST also differs from BLEU in its calculation of the brevity penalty , insofar as small variations in translation length do not impact the overall score as much .
It was originally used for measuring the performance of speech recognition systems , but is also used in the evaluation of machine translation .
As of the early 2000s , several speech recognition ( SR ) software packages exist for Linux .
It is essential to compile a speech corpus to produce acoustic model s for speech recognition projects .
BrownBoost uses a non-convex potential loss function , thus it does not fit into the AdaBoost framework .
However , in contrast to boosting algorithms that analytically minimize a convex loss function ( e.g. AdaBoost and LogitBoost ) , BrownBoost solves a system of two equations and two unknowns using standard numerical methods .
In preliminary experimental results with noisy datasets , BrownBoost outperformed AdaBoost ' s generalization error ; however , LogitBoost performed as well as BrownBoost .
The original iteration of the service was a mass collaboration platform designed for the digitization of books , particularly those that were too illegible to be Optical character recognition .
Distributed Proofreaders was the first project to volunteer its time to decipher scanned text that could not be read by optical character recognition ( OCR ) programs .
The reCAPTCHA program originated with Guatemala n computer scientist Luis von Ahn ,
José Barros Silva ( born 26 December 1973 , in Praia ) , known as Zé Piguita , is a Cape Verde an retired footballer who played as a defender .
It is reminiscent of the standard query language SQL and the object-oriented programming language Java .
Never-Ending Language Learning is a semantic machine learning system developed by a research team at Carnegie Mellon University that extracts relationships from the open web .
The poor coverage , rarity and development cost related to structured resources such as semantic lexicon s ( e.g. WordNet , UMLS ) and domain ontologies ( e.g. the Gene Ontology ) has given rise to new approaches based on broad , dynamic background knowledge on the Web .
Recent text recognition is based on Recurrent neural network ( Long short-term memory ) and does not require a language model .
In computer vision , visual descriptors or image descriptors are descriptions of the visual features of the contents in image s , videos , or algorithms or applications that produce such descriptions .
This description is automatically generated by means of signal processing .
Depth-first search is very efficient in its use of computing resources , but is incomplete if the search space contains infinite branches and the search strategy searches these in preference to finite branches : the computation does not terminate .
Vivek Ranadivé br / small ( Founder & Board Member )
In 1997 , Vivek Ranadivé , who had previously founded and sold Teknekron Software Systems , Inc , Microsoft , Netscape Enter the Fray " .
The festival is produced by monochrom in cooperation with Shifz , two Vienna -based art collectives .
Until 2019 it was supported by the ' Bureau for Philosophy ' ( of the Department of Philosophy , University of Vienna ) .
Roboexotica was presented at Kiberpipa ( Ljubljana ) in 2006 , at Maker Faire ( San Francisco ) and RoboGames ( San Francisco ) in 2007 .
The book features reflections on the festival and presents statements by former participants including Cory Doctorow , Dorkbot ' s Doueglas Repetto , Bre Pettis , V. Vale , Karen Marcelo of Survival Research Laboratories or RoboGames ' David Calkins and Simone Davalos .
Later supervised learning usually works much better when the raw input data is first translated into such a factorial code .
A naive Bayes classifier will assume the pixels are statistically independent random variables and therefore fail to produce good results .
Jürgen Schmidhuber ( 1992 ) re-formulated the problem in terms of predictors and binary feature detectors , each receiving the raw data as an input .
But each detector uses a machine learning algorithm to become as unpredictable as possible .
Hashing-based approximate nearest neighbor search algorithms generally use one of two main categories of hashing methods : either data-independent methods , such as locality-sensitive hashing ( LSH ) ; or data-dependent methods , such as Locality-preserving hashing ( LPH ) .
One of the main applications of LSH is to provide a method for efficient approximate nearest neighbor search algorithms .
In signal processing , the Overlap-add method is an efficient way to evaluate the discrete convolution of a very long signal mathx n / math with a finite impulse response ( FIR ) filter mathh n / math :
The eXtended WordNet is a project at the University of Texas at Dallas ( and funded by the National Science Foundation ) that aims to improve WordNet by semantically parsing the gloss es , thus making the information contained in these definitions available for automatic knowledge processing systems .
Each gloss is first Part-of-speech tagging using Brill 's tagger .
PROMETHEUS PRO-ART profited from the participation of Ernst Dickmanns , the 1980s pioneer of driverless car s , and his team at Bundeswehr Universität München , collaborating with Daimler-Benz .
Shib Narayan Das ( born 16 December 1946 ) is the first craftsman of the first national flag of Bangladesh .
Artist Quamrul Hassan was asked to report on the design , color , shape and explanation .
Well known methods of recursive partitioning include Ross Quinlan 's ID3 algorithm and its successors , C4.5 and C5.0 and Decision tree learning .
Ensemble learning methods such as Random forest s help to overcome a common criticism of these methods - their vulnerability to overfitting of the data - by employing different algorithms and combining their output in some way .
See Decision tree learning .
James Cameron introduced the first Terminator character in the 1984 film " The Terminator " , featuring a single cyborg simply called " The Terminator " or " Cyberdyne Systems Model 101 , " portrayed by Arnold Schwarzenegger .
Terminators can natural language processing , copy the voices of others , optical character recognition , and even sweat , smell , and bleed .
The Terminator CPU is a room-temperature superconducting artificial neural network with machine learning .Tarisa : " It 's a neural-net processor .
The T-3000 ( Jason Clarke ) uses nanorobotics in a similar shapeshifting capacity as the T-1000 ; however , it is not a liquid metal being .
It was founded in 1986 as an integral part of the Faculty of Social Sciences at the Radboud University Nijmegen in The Netherlands .
Different approaches may be employed to use the watershed principle for image segmentation .
The CMU Pronouncing Dictionary ( also known as CMUdict ) is an open-source pronouncing dictionary originally created by the Speech Group at Carnegie Mellon University ( CMU ) for use in speech recognition research .
It is commonly used to generate representations for speech recognition ( ASR ) , e.g. the CMU Sphinx system , and speech synthesis ( TTS ) , e.g. the Festival system .
In 2001 , Tim Berners-Lee participated in a discussion of the Semantic Web , where it was presented that intelligent software ' agents ' might one day automatically trawl the Web and find , filter and correlate previously unrelated , published facts for the benefit of end users .
In statistics and data mining , " k " -medians clustering A. K. Jain and R. C. Dubes , " Algorithms for Clustering Data " .
Cambridge , Massachusetts : MIT Press , 1997 , pp. 368 & ndash ; 374. is a cluster analysis algorithm .
It is a variation of k-means clustering where instead of calculating the mean for each cluster to determine its centroid , one instead calculates the median .
This has the effect of minimizing error over all clusters with respect to the 1- norm distance metric , as opposed to the squared 2-norm distance metric ( which k-means clustering does .
The criterion function formulated in this way is sometimes a better criterion than that used in the k-means clustering algorithm , in which the sum of the squared distances is used .
Alphabet Inc ) for an unknown price , where it was managed by Andy Rubin until his departure from Google in 2014 .
On May 11 , 2018 CEO of Boston Dynamics Marc Raibert on TechCrunch Robotics Session 2018 announced that SpotMini robot is in pre-production and preparing for commercial availability in 2019.year { { cite | url =
The term MRD is often contrasted with Natural Language Processing dictionary , in the sense that an MRD is the electronic form of a dictionary which was printed before on paper .
Finally , in the 1980s starting with initial support from Bellcore and later funded by various U.S. federal agencies , including NSF , ARDA , DARPA , DTO , and REFLEX , George Armitage Miller and Christiane Fellbaum at Princeton University completed the creation and wide distribution of a dictionary and its taxonomy in the WordNet project , which today stands as the most widely distributed computational lexicology resource .
Discriminative models , also referred to as conditional models or backward models , are a class of Supervised learning machine learning used for classification or regression .
This is decided according to the most similar example from the training data ( see supervised learning ) .
Typical discriminative models include logistic regression ( LR ) , support vector machine s ( SVM ) , conditional random fields ( CRFs ) ( specified over an undirected graph ) , decision trees , neural networks , and many others .
Typical generative model approaches include naive Bayes classifier s , Gaussian mixture model s , variational autoencoders and others .
For example , in object recognition , mathx / math is likely to be a vector of raw pixels ( or features extracted from the raw pixels of the image ) .
The equation above represents logistic regression .
It could also be replaced by the Log loss equation below :
Since the Log loss is differentiable , a gradient-based method can be used to optimize the model .
In addition , most discriminative models are inherently supervised learning and cannot easily support unsupervised learning .
During the process of extracting the discriminative features prior to the clustering , Principal component analysis ( PCA ) , though commonly used , is not a necessarily discriminative approach .
Linear discriminant analysis ( LDA ) , provides an efficient way of eliminating the disadvantage we list above .
There are two types of categories of data mining .
In April 2014 the British company Friend MTS Ltd. donated its video fingerprinting technology ( known as F1 ) to the International Centre for Missing & Exploited Children ( ICMEC ) to help increase the efficiency of child pornography investigations , and to halt the continued sharing of similar files over the internet .
Principal component analysis ( PCA ) , for instance , is a relevant tool for studying correlations of movement between groups of landmarks among the training set population .
While there is no perfect way of describing the confusion matrix of true and false positives and negatives by a single number , the Matthews correlation coefficient is generally regarded as being one of the best such measures .
Other measures , such as the proportion of correct predictions ( also termed accuracy ) , are not useful when the two classes are of very different sizes .
The MCC can be calculated directly from the confusion matrix using the formula :
The four outcomes can be formulated in a 2 × 2 " contingency table " or " confusion matrix " , as follows :
Jørgen Hallundbæk , the founder and CEO of Welltec , conceived the idea behind the Well Tractor while he was a graduate student at the Technical University of Denmark .
In computer vision , speeded up robust features ( SURF ) is a patented local feature detector and descriptor .
It can be used for tasks such as object recognition , image registration , classification , or 3D reconstruction .
SURF was first published by Herbert Bay , Tinne Tuytelaars , and Luc Van Gool , and presented at the 2006 European Conference on Computer Vision .
GLOH ( Gradient Location and Orientation Histogram ) is a robust image descriptor that can be used in computer vision tasks .
In computer vision a camera matrix or ( camera ) projection matrix is a math3 \ times 4 / math matrix which describes the mapping of a pinhole camera from 3D points in the world to 2D points in an image .
Often , data preprocessing is the most important phase of a machine learning project , especially in computational biology .
Data preprocessing includes cleaning , Instance selection , normalization , transformation , feature extraction and selection , etc .
The origins of data preprocessing are located in data mining .
optical aberrations caused by lenses belong to the optics area and not to the signal processing areas .
He was honored with the 2019 Lifetime Achievement Award from the Association for Computational Linguistics ( ACL ) .
He is a past President ( 1979 ) and an inaugural Fellow ( 2011 ) of the ACL , a co-recipient of the 1992 Association for Computing Machinery Software Systems Award for his contribution to the Interlisp programming system , and a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery .
During 1995-1996 he was a Fellow-in-Residence at the Netherlands Institute for Advanced Study in the Humanities and Social Sciences .
This means that the pinhole camera model often can be used as a reasonable description of how a camera depicts a 3D scene , for example in computer vision and computer graphics .
Gradient descent minimization is one of the simplest optimizations which can be used to minimize snake energy .
He describes the decryption scheme and the public key creation that are based on a backpropagation neural network .
Using a principal component analysis ( PCA ) based technique , the method learns off-line a bank of filters that uniquely identify each size of blur ; these filters are then applied directly to the captured image , as a normal convolution .
Chow and Liu show how to select second-order terms for the product approximation so that , among all such second-order approximations ( first-order dependency trees ) , the constructed approximation mathP ^ { \ prime } / math has the minimum Kullback-Leibler divergence to the actual distribution mathP / math , and is thus the " closest " approximation in the classical information theory sense .
This can then be generalized for multi-label classification .
Deep learning neural network based inpainting can be used for decensoring images .
Abductive logic programming ( ALP ) is a high-level knowledge representation framework that can be used to solve problems declaratively based on abductive reasoning .
It can be used to solve problems in diagnosis , planning , natural language and machine learning .
The sum of absolute differences may be used for a variety of purposes , such as object recognition , the generation of disparity maps for stereo images , and motion estimation for video compression .
Windows Speech Recognition ( WSR ) is a speech recognition component developed by Microsoft for Windows Vista that enables voice commands to control the desktop user interface ; dictate text in electronic document s and email ; navigate website s ; perform keyboard shortcut s ; and to operate the mouse cursor .
Microsoft was involved in speech recognition and speech synthesis research for many years before WSR .
WSR supports custom macros through a supplementary application by Microsoft that enables additional natural language processing commands .
Geofoto is a Croatia n company with 260 employees headquartered in Zagreb , Croatia with subsidiaries in Norway , North Macedonia , Slovenia , Bolivia , Argentina , United Arab Emirates , Czech Republic and United Kingdom .
Exporting activities started in early 2000s ( decade ) and peaked in 2008 when the company acquired Geodetski zavod Slovenije d.d. , the largest Slovenia n surveying company for 4.5 million euros ,
In this way , Transaction Logic is able to declaratively capture a number of non-logical phenomena , including procedural knowledge in artificial intelligence , active database s , and methods with side effects in object database s .
The resulting knowledge model can only be computer interpretable when it is expressed in some knowledge representation language or data structure that enables the knowledge to be interpreted by software and to be stored in a database or data exchange file.br /
In computer vision triangulation refers to the process of determining a point in 3D space given its projections onto two , or more , images .
Shimon Ullman ( שמעון אולמן , born January 28 , 1948 in Jerusalem ) is a professor of computer science at the Weizmann Institute of Science , Israel .
The case of a two-variable signal which is i1D appears frequently in computer vision and image processing and captures the idea of local image regions which contain lines or edges .
Randolph Frederick " Randy " Pausch ( October 23 , 1960 - July 25 , 2008 ) was an American educator , a professor of computer science , human-computer interaction , and design at Carnegie Mellon University ( CMU ) in Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania .
In 1998 , he was a co-founder , along with Don Marinelli , of CMU 's Entertainment Technology Center ( ETC ) , and he started the Building Virtual Worlds Pausch was the author or co-author of five books and over 70 articles .
Pausch received two awards from Association for Computing Machinery in 2007 for his achievements in computing education : the Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award and the ACM SIGCSE Award for Outstanding Contributions to Computer Science Education .
Then Disney -owned publisher Hyperion paid $ 6.7 million for the rights to publish a book about Pausch called " The Last Lecture " , co-authored by Pausch and " Wall Street Journal " reporter Jeffrey Zaslow .
On April 9 , 2008 , the ABC network aired an hour-long Diane Sawyer feature on Pausch titled " The Last Lecture : A Love Story For Your Life .
A devoted " Star Trek " fan , Pausch was invited by film director J. J. Abrams to film a role in " Star Trek " .
In addition to appearing in the film , he also has a line of dialogue at the beginning of the film ( " Captain , we have visual .
The specialist use of the word " presence " derives from the term " telepresence , " coined by Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor Marvin Minsky in 1980 .
Other theories similar to the " cognitive module " are " cognitive description " , John Tooby and Leda Cosmides 1992 " The Psychological Foundations of Culture " , in Barkow , Jerome H. , Cosmides , Leda , Tooby , John , ( 1992 ) " The Adapted Mind : Evolutionary Psychology and the Generation of Culture , " Oxford University Press , .
Evolutionary psychologists claim that other social scientists do not accept that some modules are partially inherited , John Tooby and Leda Cosmides 1992 " The Psychological Foundations of Culture " , in " The Adapted Mind : Evolutionary Psychology and the Generation of Culture , " Oxford University Press , page 38. other social scientists claim that evolutionary psychologists are exaggerating the importance of inherited cognitive modules .
Frequency estimation is the process of estimating the complex frequency components of a Digital signal processing in the presence of noise given assumptions about the number of the components.Hayes , Monson H. , " Statistical Digital Signal Processing and Modeling " , John Wiley & Sons , Inc .
Speech-generating devices can produce electronic voice output by using digitized recordings of natural speech or through speech synthesis - which may carry less emotional information but can permit the user to speak novel messages .
The output of a SGD may be digitized and / or synthesized : digitized systems play directly recorded words or phrases while speech synthesis uses text-to-speech software that can carry less emotional information but permits the user to speak novel messages by typing new words .
SGDs that use synthesized speech apply the phonetic rules of the language to translate the user 's message into voice output ( speech synthesis ) .
This can be done via Dijkstra 's algorithm , dynamic programming , greedy algorithm or graph cuts among others .
Dynamic programming is a programming method that stores the results of sub-calculations in order to simplify calculating a more complex result .
was a 2007-2018 inducement prize space competition organized by the X Prize Foundation , and sponsored by Google .
In 2015 , X Prize Foundation announced that the competition deadline would be extended to December 2017 if at least one team could secure a verified launch contract by 31 December 2015 .
In 2015 , X Prize Foundation announced that the competition deadline would be extended to December 2017 if at least one team could secure a verified launch contract by 31 December 2015 .
Peter Diamandis , the project founder , wrote on the official web page in 2007 :
Peter Diamandis then presented the idea to Larry Page and Sergey Brin , co-founders of Google , at an X Prize Foundation fundraiser .
Articulated body pose estimation in computer vision is the study of algorithm s and systems that recover the pose of an articulated body , which consists of joints and rigid parts using image-based observations .
Pose estimation is a difficult problem and an active subject of research because the human body has 244 degrees of freedom with 230 joints .
Recent advances in pose estimation and motion capture have enabled markerless applications , sometimes in real time .
Other applications include video surveillance , animal tracking and behavior understanding , sign language detection , advanced human-computer interaction , and markerless motion capturing .
A commercially successful but specialized computer vision-based articulated body pose estimation technique is optical motion capture .
A number of groups and companies are researching pose estimation , including groups at Brown University , Carnegie Mellon University , MPI Saarbruecken , Stanford University , the University of California , San Diego , the University of Toronto , the École Centrale Paris , ETH Zurich , National University of Sciences and Technology ( NUST ) , and the University of California , Irvine .
Keyword AAA is a thesaurus created by the State Records Authority of New South Wales , Australia .
Powerset was working on building a natural language search engine that could find targeted question answering ( as opposed to keyword based search ) .
For example , when confronted with a question like " Which United States state has the highest income tax ? , " conventional search engines ignore the question phrasing and instead do a search on the keywords " state , " " highest , " " income , " and " tax .
Barney Pell ( born March 18 , 1968 , in Hollywood , California )
The Home Office states ANPR is used by law enforcement agencies in the United Kingdom to help detect , deter and disrupt criminality including tackling organised crime groups and terrorists .
The National ANPR Data Centre will make it possible for software to data mining previous sightings of license plate to identify patterns in the data .
The National ANPR Data Centre uses an Oracle database , and custom-written Java software with specific police networks rather than the internet used to send and receive data .
In March 2005 , plans were announced to set up a nationwide system of over 2,000 automatic number plate recognition cameras in the United Kingdom .
Speaking on 14 September 2008 , Simon Davies , the director of Privacy International stated that the database would give police " extraordinary powers of surveillance " and claimed that " this would never be allowed in any other democratic country .
Ben Goertzel is an artificial intelligence researcher .
He was Director of Research of the Machine Intelligence Research Institute ( formerly the Singularity Institute ) .
In the 2007-2008 FIRST Tech Challenge Robotics competition , Quad Quandary is the first challenge theme replacing the former FIRST Vex Challenge , with similar general rules regarding the specifications of the robot and the game play .
In 2002 his wife received a job in Halifax approximately from his place of work in Waterloo , Ontario , Canada , North America .
Versions have been adapted to use WordNet .Satanjeev Banerjee and Ted Pedersen .
Jaime Guillermo Carbonell ( July 29 , 1953 - February 28 , 2020 ) was a computer scientist who made seminal contributions to the development of natural language processing tools and technologies .
His extensive research in machine translation resulted in the development of several state-of-the-art language translation and artificial intelligence systems .
He earned his B.S. degrees in Physics and in Mathematics from MIT in 1975 and did his Ph.D. under Dr. Roger Schank at Yale University in 1979 .
He was affiliated with the Language Technologies Institute , Computer Science Department , Machine Learning Department , and Computational Biology Department at Carnegie Mellon .
His interests spanned several areas of artificial intelligence , language technologies and machine learning .
In particular , his research focused on areas such as text mining ( extraction , categorization , novelty detection ) and in new theoretical frameworks such as a unified utility-based theory bridging information retrieval , Automatic summarization , free-text Question Answering and related tasks .
He also worked on machine translation , both high-accuracy knowledge-based MT and machine learning for Statistical machine translation ( such as generalized example-based MT ) .
These areas include machine translation , search engines ( including founding of Lycos by Michael Loren Mauldin , one of Carbonell 's PhD students ) , speech synthesis , and education .
His views anticipate , in some respects , the more detailed account of the cognitive basis of mathematics given by George Lakoff and Rafael E. Núñez in their " Where Mathematics Comes From " .
The Vaníček method was then simplified in 1976 by Nicholas R. Lomb of the University of Sydney , who pointed out its close connection to periodogram analysis.ref name = lomb who showed that with minor changes it could be made identical to Lomb 's least-squares formula for fitting individual sinusoid frequencies .
In the Vaníček method , a discrete data set is approximated by a weighted sum of sinusoids of progressively determined frequencies , using a standard linear regression , or least-squares fit .
The solution for " x " is closed-form , using standard linear regression :
The method defines an optimal solution as the one that minimizes the L1 norm of the coefficients , so that the problem can be cast as a linear programming problem , for which efficient solution methods are available .
The LSSA can be implemented in less than a page of MATLAB code .
In multivariate statistics and the cluster analysis of data , spectral clustering techniques make use of the spectrum ( eigenvalues ) of the similarity matrix of the data to perform dimensionality reduction before clustering in fewer dimensions .
The general approach to spectral clustering is to use a standard Cluster analysis method ( there are many such methods , " k " -means is discussed below ) on relevant eigenvector s of a Laplacian matrix of mathA / math .
" The Stuff of Thought : Language As a Window Into Human Nature " is a 2007 book by experimental psychologist Steven Pinker .
In a broader definition , voice search includes open-domain keyword query on any information on the Internet , for example in Google Voice Search , Cortana , Siri and Amazon Echo .
Voice search is a type of dialog system .
" Both " Trump " and the " United States " are named entities since they refer to specific objects ( Donald Trump and United States ) .
There is also a general agreement in the Named Entity Recognition community to consider as named entities temporal and numerical expressions such as amounts of money and other types of units , which may violate the rigid designator perspective .
The task of recognizing named entities in text is Named Entity Recognition while the task of determining the identity of the named entities mentioned in text is called Entity Linking .
The field of spoken dialog systems is quite large and includes research ( featured at scientific conferences such as SIGdial and Interspeech ) and a large industrial sector ( with its own meetings such as SpeechTek and AVIOS ) .
He is interested in knowledge representation , commonsense reasoning , and natural language understanding , believing that " " deep language understanding can only currently be achieved by significant hand-engineering of semantically-rich formalisms coupled with statistical preferences " " .
Allen received his Ph.D. from the University of Toronto in 1979 , under the supervision of C. Raymond Perrault ,
The TRIPS project is a long-term research to build generic technology for dialogue ( both spoken and ' chat ' ) systems , which includes natural language processing , collaborative problem solving , and dynamic context-sensitive language modeling .
This is contrast with the data driven approaches by machine learning , which requires to collect and annotate corpora , i.e. training data , firstly .
PLOW agent is a system that learns executable task models from a single collaborative learning session , which integrates wide AI technologies including deep natural language understanding , knowledge representation and reasoning , dialogue systems , planning / agent-based systems , and machine learning .
He is also the co-author with Henry Kautz , Richard Pelavin , and Josh Tenenberg of " Reasoning About Plans " ( Morgan Kaufmann , 1991 ) .Review by Mitchell Marks and Kristian J. Hammond ( 1993 ) , " ACM SIGART Bulletin " 4 ( 2 ) : 8-11 , .
In 1991 he was elected as a fellow of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence ( 1990 , founding fellow ) .
GMDH is used in such fields as data mining , knowledge discovery , prediction , complex systems modeling , optimization and pattern recognition .
Jürgen Schmidhuber cites GMDH as one of the first deep learning methods , remarking that it was used to train eight-layer neural nets as early as 1971 .
In fact , this approach can be considered as one of the implementations of the Artificial Intelligence thesis , which states that a computer can act as powerful advisor to humans .
Present stage of GMDH development can be described as blossom out of deep learning neuronets and parallel inductive algorithms for multiprocessor computers .
For example , the Soviet Union - Russia n Alfa class submarine , was constructed out of titanium .
In the 1980s , comedian Otto Waalkes had a routine called " English for Runaways , " which is a nonsensical literal translation of " Englisch für Fortgeschrittene " ( actually an idiom for ' English for advanced speakers ' in German - note that " fortschreiten " divides into " fort " , meaning " away " or " forward , " and " schreiten " , meaning " to walk in steps " ) .
A machine translation application is a program that attempts to translate text or speech from one natural language to another .
Neural machine translation models available through the Watson Language Translator API for developers .
The ABU Asia-Pacific Robot Contest ( ABU Robocon ) is an Asia n Oceania n College robot competition , founded in 2002 by Asia-Pacific Broadcasting Union .
The 2016 ABU Robocon was held at Bangkok , Thailand .
Hung Yen University of Technology and Education , Vietnam won the International Robocon 2015 held in Yogyakarta , Indonesia .
It was won by Harbin Institute of Technology to give China its third successive win .
An Inference Attack is a data mining technique performed by analyzing data in order to illegitimately gain knowledge about a subject or database. can be considered as leaked if an adversary can infer its real value with a high confidence.Against
Essentially , this means that if the " n " -gram has been seen more than " k " times in training , the conditional probability of a word given its history is proportional to the maximum likelihood estimate of that " n " -gram .
The first uses of modern robots were in factories as industrial robot s - simple fixed machines capable of manufacturing tasks which allowed production with less need for human assistance .
Digitally controlled industrial robot s and robots using artificial intelligence have been built since the 2000s .
In the New Kingdom of Egypt , from the 16th century BC till the 11th century BC , ancient Egyptians would frequently consult these statues for advice .
Mark E. Rosheim summarizes the advances in robotics made by Muslim engineers , especially al-Jazari , as follows :
Among the first verifiable automation is a humanoid drawn by Leonardo da Vinci ( 1452-1519 ) in around 1495 .
The ultimate attempt at automation was The Turk by Wolfgang von Kempelen , a sophisticated machine that could play chess against a human opponent and toured Europe .
In 1898 Nikola Tesla demonstrated a prototype remote-controlled submarine at Madison Square Garden as " an automaton which left to itself , will act as through possessed of reason and without any wilful control from the outside .
In World War I remote control weapons were used , based on the work of Nikola Tesla , who had constructed an electrical boat that could be remotely controlled by radio .
Walter stressed the importance of using purely analogue electronics to simulate brain processes at a time when his contemporaries such as Alan Turing and John von Neumann were all turning towards a view of mental processes in terms of digital computation .
Walter 's work inspired subsequent generations of robotics researchers such as Rodney Brooks , Hans Moravec and Mark Tilden .
Unimate , the first digitally operated and programmable robot , was invented by George Devol in 1954 and " represents the foundation of the modern robotics industry .
Robots became cultural icons and the Japanese government was spurred into funding research into robotics .
The Rancho Arm was developed as a robotic arm to help handicapped patients at the Rancho Los Amigos National Rehabilitation Center in Downey , California ; this computer-controlled arm was bought by Stanford University in 1963 .
Freddy and Freddy II were robots built at the University of Edinburgh School of Informatics by Pat Ambler , Robin Popplestone , Austin Tate , and Donald Mitchie , and were capable of assembling wooden blocks in a period of several hours .
In 1974 , Michael J. Freeman created Leachim , a robot teacher who was programmed with the class curricular , as well as certain biographical information on the 40 students whom Leachim was programmed to teach .
The Cyberknife had been invented by John R. Adler and the first system was installed at Stanford University in 1991 .
On 25 October 2017 at the Future Investment Summit in Riyadh , a robot called Sophia and referred to with female pronouns was granted Saudi Arabia n citizenship , becoming the first robot ever to have a nationality .
Dr. Johannes Heidenhain GmbH is a privately owned enterprise located in Traunreut , Germany that manufactures numerical controls for machine tools , as well as mechatronic measuring devices for length and angle .
He was born in Rupelmonde in East Flanders to parents from Gangelt in the Duchy of Jülich .
Mercator devised a technique to produce globe s , celestial as well as terrestrial , by techniques of relative mass production .
People who do research on computational linguistics .
The bag-of-words model is a simplifying representation used in natural language processing and information retrieval ( IR ) .
Additionally , for the specific purpose of classification , Supervised learning alternatives have been developed to account for the class label of a document .
See language model for a more detailed discussion .
Inform " , 3 , 177-200 .
The field employs methods and theories from a very broad range of disciplines , including : cognitive psychology , evolutionary psychology , cognitive anthropology , artificial intelligence , developmental psychology , and archaeology .
An unrelated but commonly used combination of basic statistics from information retrieval is the F-score , being a ( possibly weighted ) harmonic mean of recall and precision where recall = sensitivity = true positive rate , but specificity and precision are totally different measures .
Kappa statistics such as Fleiss ' kappa and Cohen 's kappa are methods for calculating inter-rater reliability based on different assumptions about the marginal or prior distributions , and are increasingly used as " chance corrected " alternatives to accuracy in other contexts .
When the true prevalence s for the two positive variables are equal as assumed in Fleiss kappa and F-score , that is the number of positive predictions matches the number of positive classes in the dichotomous ( two class ) case , the different kappa and correlation measure collapse to identity with Youden 's J , and recall , precision and F-score are similarly identical with accuracy .
In 1983 he took a sabbatical year at MIT , working in Marvin Minsky ' s Artificial Intelligence Lab .
He discusses Breadth-first search and Depth-first search techniques , but eventually concludes that the results represent expert system s that incarnate a lot of technical knowledge but don 't shine much light on the mental processes that humans use to solve such puzzles .
He argues that pattern recognition , analogy , and fluid working hypotheses are fundamental to understand how humans tackle such problems .
This chapter compares Copycat with other recent ( at the time ) work in artificial intelligence .
Sigmoid function activation functions use a second non-linearity for large inputs : math \ phi ( v _ i ) = ( 1 + \ exp ( -v _ i ) ) ^ { -1 } / math .
Psycholinguistic models of speech perception , e.g. TRACE , must be distinguished from computer speech recognition tools .
Lexical density is one of the methods used in discourse analysis as a descriptive parameter which varies with register and genre .
The method is based on estimating the conditional probabilities using the nonparametric maximum likelihood method which leads
The logogen model of 1969 is a model of speech recognition that uses units called " logogens " to explain how humans comprehend spoken or written words .
Examples of such cases include artificial intelligence and speech and image processing .
Its importance comes from the fact that learning is a single-layer process - that is , a synaptic weight changes only depending on the response of the inputs and outputs of that layer , thus avoiding the multi-layer dependence associated with the backpropagation algorithm .
The rule is unstable , however , and is typically modified using such variations as Oja 's rule , radial basis functions or the backpropagation algorithm .
The Hilbert-Huang transform ( HHT ) is a way to decompose a Signal processing into so-called intrinsic mode functions ( IMF ) along with a trend , and obtain instantaneous frequency data .
The HHT uses the EMD method to decompose a Signal processing into so-called intrinsic mode functions ( IMF ) with a trend , and applies the HSA method to the IMFs to obtain instantaneous frequency data .
Many computer vision and image processing applications work directly with the features extracted from an image , rather than the raw image ; for example , for computing image correspondences , or for learning object categories .
In the field of Information theory Shannon entropy is defined to quantify the complexity of a distribution " p " as mathp \ log p \ , / math .
In the field of computer vision different feature detectors have been evaluated by several tests .
The Holy Roman Empire had been informally dissolved in 1806 with the abdication of Emperor Francis II during the Napoleonic Wars .
It was founded in 1998 by Steven Woods , Jeromy Carriere and Alex Quilici as a Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania , United States , based voice portal infrastructure company named Quackware .
They consist of lectures at the University of Vienna by scholars who are experts in their field with extended follow-up discussions at KLI .
In machine learning , it is desired to have a training set that represents the true distribution of some sample data mathS / math .
WordNet is a database of words organized into a structural way .
However , usage only became widespread in 2005 when Navneet Dalal and Bill Triggs , researchers for the French National Institute for Research in Computer Science and Automation ( INRIA ) , presented their supplementary work on HOG descriptors at the Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition ( CVPR ) .
HOG descriptors may be used for object recognition by providing them as features to a machine learning algorithm .
Dalal and Triggs used HOG descriptors as features in a support vector machine ( SVM ) ; however , HOG descriptors are not tied to a specific machine learning algorithm .
PCA-SIFT descriptors are similar to SIFT descriptors , but differ in that principal component analysis is applied to the normalized gradient patches .
As for the results , the C-HOG and R-HOG block descriptors perform comparably , with the C-HOG descriptors maintaining a slight advantage in the detection miss rate at fixed false positive rate s across both data sets .
As part of the 2006 European Conference on Computer Vision ( ECCV ) , Dalal and Triggs teamed up with Cordelia Schmid to apply HOG detectors to the problem of human detection in films and videos .
These internal motion histograms use the gradient magnitudes from optical flow fields obtained from two consecutive frames .
At the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition in 2006 , Qiang Zhu , Shai Avidan , Mei-Chen Yeh , and Kwang-Ting Cheng presented an algorithm to significantly speed up human detection using HOG descriptor methods .
Their method uses HOG descriptors in combination with the cascading classifiers algorithm normally applied with great success to face detection .
In order to isolate the blocks best suited for human detection , they applied the AdaBoost algorithm to select those blocks to be included in the cascade .
At the IEEE International Conference on Image Processing in 2010 , Rui Hu , Mark Banard , and John Collomosse extended the HOG descriptor for use in sketch based image retrieval ( SBIR ) .
Object recognition & ndash ; technology in the field of computer vision for finding and identifying objects in an image or video sequence .
Genetic algorithm s can operate without prior knowledge of a given dataset and can develop recognition procedures without human intervention .
The information is a blend of sitemaps and RSS and is created using the Information Model ( IM ) and Biomedical Resource Ontology ( BRO ) .
" Crawler-friendly Web Servers " , and it integrates the features of sitemaps and RSS feeds into a decentralized mechanism for computational biologists and bio-informaticians to openly broadcast and retrieve meta-data about biomedical resources .
The Hessian affine region detector is a feature detector used in the fields of computer vision and image analysis .
Two general approaches have been taken to the problem : pattern recognition approaches use low-level image appearance information to locate an object , while feature-based geometric approaches construct a model for the object to be recognized , and match the model against the photograph .
In computer vision , maximally stable extremal regions ( MSER ) are used as a method of blob detection in images .
Thus , the object detection framework employs a variant of the learning algorithm AdaBoost to both select the best features and to train classifiers that use them .
use P and N to train a classifier with n ( I ) features using AdaBoost
The Webots project started in 1996 , initially developed by Dr. Olivier Michel at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology ( EPFL ) in Lausanne , Switzerland and then from 1998 by { { cite web
The robot controller programs can be written outside of Webots in C , C + + , Python , ROS , Java and MATLAB using a simple API .
Why 's User : Lir still blocked ? -- Ibn Battuta ( talk ) 03 : 39 , 12 December 2007 ( UTC )
Thank you very very very very much and kisses from Australia ( but I 'm Israel ) Ahmed987147 ( talk ) 03 : 54 , 12 December 2007 ( UTC )
The image nowiki Image : Alexander _ Cockburn.jpg / nowiki , an image of Sir Alexander Cockburn , 12th Baronet , got overwritten in a dab muddle by another user with an image of Alexander Cockburn the journalist .
Bland 's rule was developed by Robert G. Bland , now a professor of operations research at Cornell University , while he was a research fellow at the Center for Operations Research and Econometrics in Belgium .
... that Sir Edmund Hillary , a Kiwi ( New Zealander ) , was a beekeeper in Auckland before he became the first man to reach the summit of Nepal 's .
As such , it is an alternative to the multinomial logit model as one method of multiclass classification .
Graeme Ritchie and Kim Binsted in their 1994 research paper described a computer program , JAPE , designed to generate question-answer-type pun s from a general , i.e. , non-humorous , lexicon.Kim Binsted , Graeme Ritchie ( 1994 ) " A symbolic description of punning riddles and its computer implementation .
An application of machine learning techniques for the distinguishing of joke texts from non-jokes was described by Mihalcea and Strapparava ( 2006 ) .Mihalcea , R. and Strapparava , C. ( 2006 ) .
Therefore , the role of humor in human-computer interaction is being investigated .
Because many people regard humor as something particular to humans , its appearance in conversation can be quite useful in convincing a human interrogator that a hidden entity , which could be a machine or a human , is in fact a human.Shah , H. and Kevin Warwick , " Machine Humour : Examples from Turing Test Experiments , " AI & Society , Vol.32 , pp553-561 , 2017 .
For example , a misquotation of Diana Vreeland ' s " Pink is the navy blue of India " .
PNKP has been shown to interact with DNA polymerase beta
KISS IDE supports C , C + + , Java , and Python .
Thomas Bauman and Leland Wright of the American Translators Association who had arrived on September 11 , 1978 , in Provo , Utah to view a demonstration of the Weidner Multi-Lingual Word Processing System .
" He subsequently extended an invitation for Wydner to attend the annual meeting of the American Translators Association that following October where the Weidner Machine Translation System hailed a hoped-for breakthrough in machine translation .
This technology is the basis of the Weidner Multi-Lingual Word Processing System , and was programmed for processing human languages on the low-cost computers of the late 1970s and as part of machine translation and word processing software today .
Translated experts at the Commission of the European Union , said that this ( to them ) " new translation system " of Bruce Wydner " renewed " their " hope " for Machine Translation that would lead them to " Better Translation for Better Communication .
In 1984 Stephen Weidner 's original Company was purchased by Bravis International , one of Japan " s largest translation companies , as part of a settlement of the court ordered liquidation of Weidner Communication 's assets , but Weidner Communications Inc. still maintained offices in Chicago and in Paris .
Eyring Research Institute was a development bed to Bruce Bastian ( co-founder of WordPerfect ) who was one of the original programmer helpers for Bruce Wydner in the production of the original Weidner Spanish-English Multi-lingual Word Processor , a foundation to the Wordperfect Mono-lingual Word Processor , produced first for English then for Spanish .
Eyring Research Institute was instrumental to the U.S. Air Force Missile Directorate at Hill Air Force Base near Ogden , Utah to produce in top military secrecy , the Intelligent Systems Technology Software that was foundational to the later named Reagan Star Wars program .
LMF is able to represent most lexicons , including WordNet , EDR and PAROLE lexicons .
In early 2004 , the ISO / TC37 committee decided to form a common ISO project with Nicoletta Calzolari ( CNR -ILC Italy ) as convenor and Gil Francopoulo ( Tagmatica France ) and Monte George ( American National Standards Institute USA ) as editors .
The ISO / TC37 standards are currently elaborated as high level specifications and deal with word segmentation ( ISO 24614 ) , annotations ( ISO 24611 a.k.a. MAF , ISO 24612 a.k.a. LAF , ISO 24615 a.k.a. SynAF , and ISO 24617-1 a.k.a. SemAF / Time ) , feature structure s ( ISO 24610 ) , multimedia containers ( ISO 24616 a.k.a. MLIF ) , and lexicons ( ISO 24613 ) .
The LMF specification complies with the modeling principles of Unified Modeling Language ( UML ) as defined by Object Management Group ( OMG ) .
The extensions are specifically dedicated to morphology , MRD , Natural Language Processing syntax , Natural Language Processing semantics , Natural Language Processing multilingual notation s , Natural Language Processing morphological pattern s , multiword expression pattern s , and constraint expression pattern s .
The first publication about the LMF specification as it has been ratified by ISO ( this paper became ( in 2015 ) the 9th most cited paper within the LREC conferences from LREC papers ) :
He is a founding member and has served as the first President of the International Association for the Cognitive Science of Religion ( IACSR ) .
Currently , Lawson is a " Senior Researcher and Distinguished Professor in Residence " at LEVYNA ( Laboratory for Experimental Research of Religion ) at Masaryk University in Brno , Czech Republic .
The term confabulation is also used by Robert Hecht-Nielsen in describing inductive reasoning accomplished via Bayesian network s.Hecht-Nielsen , R ( 2005 ) .
This architecture includes sites such as Colorado 's Mesa Verde , Italy 's Pompeii , Wyoming 's Fort Laramie , and Kacyra 's native Mosul in Iraq - also known as the biblical Assyria n city of Nineveh .
CyArk 's digital data may be useful for professionals monitoring and managing gradual architectural deterioration at cultural sites.Interview with Ben Kacyra in National Geographic ( October 2010 ) This data could also make it possible to generate blueprints for reconstruction following catastrophic events , such as the Afghan Taliban ' s notorious demolition of the Bamiyan Buddhas in 2001 or the 2010 destruction by suspected arson of the Royal Tombs of Kasubi , Uganda .
As of October 2011 , the already-existing partnerships with the United States ' National Park Service ( NPS ) , the United Kingdom 's Historic Scotland ( HS ) , World Monuments Fund , and Mexico 's Instituto Nacional de Antropología y Historia ( INAH ) had been greatly expanded , , CyArk website
Dr. Mankoff earned her B.A. at Oberlin College and her Ph.D. in computer science at the Georgia Institute of Technology advised by Gregory Abowd and Scott Hudson .
Dr. Mankoff was a professor in the Human-Computer Interaction Institute of the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University between 2004 and 2017 .
Anind Dey is a computer science .
He is the Dean of the University of Washington Information School .
His research interests lie at the intersection of human-computer interaction and ubiquitous computing , focusing on how to make novel technologies more usable and useful .
Dey was born in Canada and now resides in Seattle , Washington .
Dey received a Bachelor of Applied Science in computer engineering from Simon Fraser University in Burnaby , Canada in 1993 .
His research interests are feedback and control in ubiquitous computing , context-aware computing , toolkits and end-user programming environments , sensor-rich environments , information overload , ambient displays , privacy , human-computer interaction .
This term is mainly used in the context of Machine translation and Natural language processing lexicons .
Contributors have included all the major BRE vendors , members of RuleML , and leading UML vendors .
We address these questions using interdisciplinary approaches from social science ( anthropology , economics , linguistics , philosophy and psychology ) , biological science ( behavioral and cognitive neuroscience , physiology ) , engineering science ( biomedical and electrical engineering , computer science ) , and medical science ( neurology , psychiatry and medical imaging ) .
Dr. Gelman is a member of the National Academy of Sciences , She also serves as a member of the Scientific Advisory Board for the False Memory Syndrome Foundation ( FMSF ) .
The OCR-A font was standardized by the American National Standards Institute ( ANSI )
as ANSI X3.17-1981. X3.4 has since become the International Committee for Information Technology Standards and the OCR-A standard is now called ISO 1073-1 : 1976 .
For years , the terms " signal processing " and " media processing " have been used interchangeably , so , most appropriately , the term HMP is reserved for those systems where host MIPS are actually used to perform digital signal-processing tasks .
Transfer-based machine translation is a type of machine translation ( MT ) .
Most Computer Vision and Machine Learning algorithms function by training on example inputs .
! -- Missing image removed : Caltech 101 vs Caltech 256 on same algorithms --A large problem in comparing computer vision techniques is the fact that most groups use their own data sets .
Model parameters are estimated using an unsupervised learning algorithm , meaning that the visual concept of an object class can be extracted from an unlabeled set of training images , even if that set contains " junk " images or instances of objects from multiple categories .
In this process of vector quantization , one can think of the centroids of these clusters as being representative of the appearance of distinctive object parts .
One-shot learning is an object categorization problem , found mostly in computer vision .
Whereas most machine learning based object categorization algorithms require training on hundreds or thousands of samples / images and very large datasets , one-shot learning aims to learn information about object categories from one , or only a few , training samples / images .
Another paper , presented at the CVPR ( CVPR ) 2000 by Erik Miller , Nicholas Matsakis , and Paul Viola will also be discussed .
This math \ theta ^ { * } / math is normally estimated using a Maximum Likelihood ( math \ theta ^ { * } = \ theta ^ { ML } / math ) or Maximum A Posteriori ( math \ theta ^ { * } = \ theta ^ { MAP } / math ) procedure .
This dimensionality is reduced using principal component analysis , and math A / math , the appearance parameter , is then formed from the first 10 principal components of each patch .
Another challenge posed by using Internet image search results as training sets for classifiers is that there is a high amount of variability within object categories , when compared with categories found in hand-labeled datasets such as Caltech 101 and Pascal .
, ref name = " fergus " / pLSA ( probabilistic latent semantic analysis ) and extensions of this model were applied to the problem of object categorization from image search. pLSA was originally developed for document classification , but has since been applied to computer vision .
Again , the parameters math \ displaystyle P ( w , x | c , z ) / math and math \ displaystyle P ( d ) / math can be solved using the EM algorithm .
To limit the number of possible object locations to a reasonable number , normal pLSA is first carried out on the set of images , and for each topic a Gaussian mixture model is fit over the visual words , weighted by math \ displaystyle P ( w | z ) / math .
Market basket analysis can be used to cluster analysis .
Several classifications schemes that have been developed use features of the baseband signal that have been used in other audio applications such as speech recognition .
This is done by modeling the received signal then using a statistical estimation method such as maximum likelihood ( ML ) , majority voting ( MV ) or maximum a posteriori ( MAP ) to make a decision about which target in the library best fits the model built using the received signal .
Studies have been done that take audio features used in speech recognition to build automated target recognition systems that will identify targets based on these audio inspired coefficients .
In order for object detection of targets to be automated , a training database needs to be created .
This method uses M blocks of data , extracts the desired features from each ( i.e. LPC coefficients , MFCC ) then models them using a Gaussian mixture model ( GMM ) .
These probabilities are used to determine what the target is using a maximum likelihood decision .
The authors Serge Belongie and Jitendra Malik tested their approach on the MNIST database .
Changes in systemic demands are reflected in a " pleasure " or " distress signal , " which is used as for reinforcement learning of associations between demands and goals , as well as episodic sequences and behavior scripts leading up to these goals .
164-178 is a cognitive architecture built by Joscha Bach at the Humboldt University of Berlin and the Institute of Cognitive Science of the University of Osnabrück .
MicroPsi 's first generation ( 2003-2009 ) is implemented in Java , and includes a framework for editing and simulating software agent s using spreading activation networks , and a graphics engine for visualization .
" MicroPsi 2 " is a new implementation of MicroPsi , written in Python , and currently used as a tool for knowledge management .Bach , J. ( 2012 ) .
Angoss Software Corporation , headquartered in Toronto , Ontario , Canada , with offices in the United States and UK , is a provider of predictive analytics systems through software licensing and services .
In the field of computational linguistics , a morphological dictionary is a linguistic resource that contains correspondences between surface form and lexical forms of words .
As a current or past contributor to a related article , I thought I 'd let you know about WikiProject Robotics , a collaborative effort to improve Wikipedia 's coverage of Robotics .
This primarily holds for industrial robot ic applications only , since the success of off-line programming depends on how similar the real environment of the robot is to the simulated environment .
The FIRST Championship is a four-day robotics championship held annually in April .
In 2018 and 2019 , the Championship was be held in Houston and Detroit , Michigan at the TCF Center and Ford Field .
In Non-negative matrix factorization , the Itakura-Saito divergence can be used as a measure of the quality of the factorization : this implies a meaningful statistical model of the components and can be solved through an iterative method .
Marko Ilić ( , born 9 May 1985 in Belgrade , Socialist Republic of Serbia , SFR Yugoslavia ) is a Serbia n footballer who plays as a midfielder for FK Srem .
Lilly is a commune in the Eure department in Normandy in northern France .
In this type of display , thousands of microscopic pistons are able to be manipulated up and down to act as pixels , which in turn reflect light with a desired wavelength to represent an image .
To this end , concepts and technologies from the field of parallelism in computer science are used to enhance and even completely modify the behavior of existing metaheuristics .
Just as it exists a long list of metaheuristics like evolutionary algorithm s , particle swarm , ant colony optimization , simulated annealing , etc. it also exists a large set of different techniques strongly or loosely based in these ones , whose behavior encompasses the multiple parallel execution of algorithm components that cooperate in some way to solve a problem on a given parallel hardware platform .
The initial population is in this case randomly generated ( or created with a greedy algorithm ) ,
The most well-known metaheuristic families based on the manipulation of a population of solutions are evolutionary algorithm s ( EAs ) , ant colony optimization ( ACO ) , particle swarm optimization ( PSO ) , scatter search ( SS ) , differential evolution ( DE ) , and estimation distribution algorithms ( EDA ) .
Evolutionary acquisition of neural topologies ( EANT / EANT2 ) is an evolutionary reinforcement learning method that evolves both the topology and weights of artificial neural network s .
It is owned by its Luxembourg parent company SeeReal Technologies S.A. , which is responsible for marketing , partnering and IP licensing .
A human visual system model ( HVS model ) is used by image processing , video processing and computer vision experts to deal with biological and psychological processes that are not yet fully understood .
Since the 1980s , this research field has captured the attention of several computer science communities due to its strength in providing personalized support for many different applications and its connection to many different fields of study such as medicine , human-computer interaction , or sociology .
Sensor -based activity recognition integrates the emerging area of sensor networks with novel data mining and machine learning techniques to model a wide range of human activities.Tanzeem Choudhury , Gaetano Borriello , et al .
Scientific conferences where vision based activity recognition work often appears are ICCV and CVPR .
Researchers have attempted a number of methods such as optical flow , Kalman filtering , Hidden Markov model s , etc .
In computer vision -based activity recognition , fine-grained action localization typically provides per-image segmentation masks delineating the human object and its action category ( e.g. , " Segment-Tube " ) .
Techniques such as dynamic Markov Networks , Convolutional neural network and Long short-term memory are often employed to exploit the semantic correlations between consecutive video frames .
Pell earned a PhD in computer science from Cambridge University in 1993 , supervised by Stephen Pulman , where he was a Marshall Scholar .
Pell 's research is focused on basic problems in the study of intelligence , computer game playing , machine learning , natural language processing , autonomous robotics , and web search .
He also did early work on machine learning in the game of Go and on an architecture for pragmatic reasoning for bidding in the game of Bridge .
In natural language processing , he was a scientist in the Artificial Intelligence Center at SRI International , where we worked on the Core Language Engine .
Pell has been an angel investor and advisor to numerous startup companies , including Pulse.io ( acquired by Google ) , Aardvark ( acquired by Google ) , Appjet ( acquired by Google ) , Jibe Mobile ( acquired by Google ) , Movity ( acquired by Trulia ) , QuestBridge , BrandYourself , CrowdFlower , and Linked In .
It is widely used in computer vision tasks such as image annotation , activity recognition , Wu , Jianxin , et al .
A similar approach is used for facial recognition system where eyes , nose , and lips can be found and features like skin color and distance between eyes can be found .
Methods for object detection generally fall into either machine learning -based approaches or deep learning -based approaches .
For Machine Learning approaches , it becomes necessary to first define features using one of the methods below , then using a technique such as support vector machine ( SVM ) to do the classification .
On the other hand , deep learning techniques are able to do end-to-end object detection without specifically defining features , and are typically based on convolutional neural network s ( CNN ) .
There are a number of competitions and prizes to promote research in artificial intelligence .
The IJCAI Award for Research Excellence is a biannual award given at the IJCAI conference to researcher in artificial intelligence as a recognition of excellence of their career .
The Machine Intelligence Prize is awarded annually by the British Computer Society for progress towards machine intelligence .
Roborace will be a global motorsport championship with Autonomous car , electrically powered vehicles .
The American Meteorological Society ' s artificial intelligence competition involves learning a classifier to characterise precipitation based on meteorological analyses of environmental conditions and polarimetric radar data .
The Cognitive Science and Neuropsychology Program has been organised by Csaba Pléh , in 1999 at the Institute of Psychology , University of Szeged .
The members went to the University of Debrecen , the Hungarian Academy of Sciences , Eötvös Loránd University , etc .
A steerable pyramid , developed by Simoncelli and others , is an implementation of a multi-scale , multi-orientation band-pass filter bank used for applications including image compression , texture synthesis , and object recognition .
The first version of DogmaModeler was developed at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel .
Adaptive histogram equalization ( AHE ) is a computer image processing technique used to improve contrast in images .
The rights were then acquired by Saarland University and the software was released as open-source .
Solving this problem is very important in many areas of natural language processing .
For example in machine translation changing the part-of-speech of a word can dramatically change its translation .
In a Markov model , these probabilities are approximated as products .
He works mainly in reinforcement learning , but has done work in machine learning , game theory , computer networking , partially observable Markov decision process solving , computer solving of analogy problems and other areas .
He is currently a professor of computer science at Brown University .
Littman received his Ph.D. in computer science from Brown University in 1996 .
During his time at Duke , he worked on an automated crossword solver PROVERB , which won an Outstanding Paper Award in 1999 from AAAI and competed in the American Crossword Puzzle Tournament .
3D Slicer is built on VTK , a pipeline-based graphical library that is widely used in scientific visualization and ITK , a framework widely used for the development of image segmentation and image registration .
In version 4 , the core application is implemented in C + + , and the API is available through a Python wrapper to facilitate rapid , iterative development and visualization in the included Python console .
Festo is a Germany multinational industrial control and automation company based in Esslingen am Neckar , Germany .. Sales subsidiaries , distribution centers and factories are located in 61 countries worldwide .
Artificial Intelligence System ( AIS ) was a distributed computing project undertaken by Intelligence Realm , Inc. with the long-term goal of simulating the human brain in real time , complete with artificial consciousness and artificial general intelligence .
In computer vision and computer graphics , 3D reconstruction is the process of capturing the shape and appearance of real objects .
The 3D reconstruction of objects is a generally scientific problem and core technology of a wide variety of fields , such as Computer Aided Geometric Design ( CAGD ) , computer graphics , computer animation , computer vision , medical imaging , computational science , virtual reality , digital media , etc .
A Braitenberg vehicle is a concept conceived in a thought experiment by the Italy - Austria n cyberneticist Valentino Braitenberg .
Amebis from Kamnik is a major company in Slovenia in the field of language technologies .
Amebis also developed the system of machine translation
Like the ID3 algorithm , FOIL hill climbs using a metric based on information theory to construct a rule that covers the data .
Even when no additional knowledge is provided to FOCL over FOIL , however , it utilizes an iterative widening search strategy similar to depth-first search : first FOCL attempts to learn a clause by introducing no free variables .
Job shop scheduling or the job-shop problem ( JSP ) is an optimization problem in computer science and operations research in which jobs are assigned to resources at particular times .
Dorit S. Hochbaum and David Shmoys presented a polynomial-time approximation scheme in 1987 that finds an approximate solution to the offline makespan minimisation problem with atomic jobs to any desired degree of accuracy .
Various algorithms exist , including genetic algorithm s .
Coupe de France de robotique is a robotics competition held in La Roche-sur-Yon , France , organized by Planète Sciences .
The company focuses on industrial automation and robotics , including software and vision guidance .
Adept has offices throughout the United States as well as in Dortmund , Germany , Paris , France , and Singapore .
In 1984 , the company introduced its first product , the " AdeptOne " SCARA robot .
Adept also offers " Adept Python " linear-module robots with one to four axes in various configurations , and six-axis " Adept Viper " articulated robot s .
The Technical Research Centre for Dependency Care and Autonomous Living ( CETpD ) is an applied research and technology transfer centre created for the Universitat Politèncica de Catalunya and the " Fundació Hospital Comarcal Sant Antoni Abat " on behalf of the " Consorci de Servei a les Persones " de Vilanova i la Geltrú , with the aim of covering the demand for research and development in the field of Gerontechnology , Ambient Intelligence , Assistive Robotics and User Experience Technologies .
The Digital Curation Centre offers the following step-by-step life cycle procedures for putting the above principles into practice :
The Ontology for Biomedical Investigations ( OBI ) addresses the need for controlled vocabularies to support integration and joint ( " cross-omics " ) analysis of experimental data , a need originally identified in the transcriptomics domain by the FGED Society , which developed the MGED Ontology as an annotation resource for microarray data .
The MGED Ontology was originally identified in the transcriptomics domain by the FGED Society and was developed to address the needs of data integration .
MacSpeech Dictate products used the highly successful and very accurate Dragon NaturallySpeaking speech recognition engine from Nuance Communications .
Reviewing MacSpeech Dictate 1.0 in the New York Times in January 2008 , David Pogue concluded : New Tools to Bolster Mac 's World
RoboCup is an international joint project to promote Artificial intelligence , robotics , and related field .
Despite the challenges , pedestrian detection still remains an active research area in computer vision in recent years .
, C. Papageorgiou and T. Poggio , " A Trainable Pedestrian Detection system , " " International Journal of Computer Vision " ( IJCV ) , pages 1 : 15-33 , 2000 others uses local features like histogram of oriented gradients N. Dalal , B. Triggs , " Histograms of oriented gradients for human detection , " " IEEE Computer Society Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition " ( CVPR ) , pages 1 : 886-893 , 2005 descriptors .
" Pedestrian detection in crowded scenes " " IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition " ( CVPR ) , pages 1 : 878-885 , 2005 proposed an approach combining both the detection and image segmentation with the name Implicit Shape Model ( ISM ) .
" A probabilistic pixel-based approach to detect humans in video streams " " IEEE International Conference on Acoustics , Speech and Signal Processing " ( ICASSP ) , pages 921-924 , 2011 at the university of Liège , to analyze the shape of these silhouettes in order to detect the humans .
Calais uses natural language processing technologies delivered via a web service interface .
Hartmut Neven ( born 1964 ) is a scientist working in quantum computing , computer vision , robotics and computational neuroscience .
Hartmut Neven studied Physics and Economics in Brazil , Köln , Paris , Tübingen and Jerusalem .
In 2006 Neven started to explore the application of quantum computing to hard combinatorial problems arising in machine learning .
On the talk page of Afghanistan a poll was opened for whether to include the term " Afghani " in the demonym list of the info-box or not .
This oversimplification is inaccurate and often unhelpful , particularly in probability-based machine learning techniques such as artificial neural network s and hidden Markov model s .
Additive smoothing is commonly a component of naive Bayes classifier s .
Recent studies have proven that additive smoothing is more effective than other probability smoothing methods in several retrieval tasks such as language-model-based pseudo-relevance feedback and recommender system s .
Tomaso Poggio director of CBCL
Tomaso Armando Poggio ( born September 11 , 1947 in Genoa , Italy ) , is the Eugene McDermott professor in the Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences , an investigator at the McGovern Institute for Brain Research , a member of the MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory ( CSAIL ) and director of both the Center for Biological and Computational Learning at MIT and the , a multi-institutional collaboration headquartered at the McGovern Institute since 2013 .
Born in Genoa , Italy , and educated at Istituto Arecco , Tomaso Poggio completed his doctorate in physics at the University of Genoa and received his degree in Theoretical Physics under professor A. Borsellino .
His interdisciplinary research on the problem of intelligence , between brains and computers , started at the Max Planck Institute in Tübingen , Germany in collaborations with Werner E. Reichardt , David C. Marr and Francis H.C. Crick , among others .
Poggio is an honorary member of the Neuroscience Research Program , a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a founding fellow of AAAI and a founding member of the McGovern Institute for Brain Research .
He received the Laurea Honoris Causa in Computer Engineering from the University of Pavia for the Volta Bicentennial in 2000 , the 2003 for Theoretical and Computational Neuroscience .
Other legal information institutes , such as those of Great Britain and Ireland ( BAILII ) , Canada ( CII ) and South Africa ( SAfLI ) soon followed .
In signal processing , " Overlap-save " is the traditional name for an efficient way to evaluate the discrete convolution between a very long signal mathx n / math and a finite impulse response ( FIR ) filter mathh n / math :
Speech recognition software is available for many computing platform s , operating system s , use models , and software license s .
The following list presents notable speech recognition software engines with a brief synopsis of characteristics .
In the summer of 2010 , Nao made global headlines with a synchronized dance routine at the Shanghai Expo in China .
The BDAV container format is a modification of MPEG-2 transport stream ( ITU-T H.222.0 | International Organization for Standardization / IEC 13818-1 ) specification for random-access media , such as Blu-ray Disc , DVD , hard drives or solid-state memory cards .
Both computer vision techniques and locality-sensitive hashing ( LSH ) are used in the VisualRank algorithm .
A large neural network attempting to model multiple parameters can suffer from interference as new data can alter existing connections or just serve to confuse .
question answering , speech recognition , and machine translation .
maximum likelihood , the
The generation and visualization of co-occurrence networks has become practical with the advent of electronically stored text compliant to text mining .
The process can be augmented through NLP ( natural language processing ) algorithms that interrogate segments of text for possible alternatives such as word order , spacing and hyphen ation .
A dialogue map does not aim to be as formal as , for example , a logic diagram or decision tree , but rather aims to be a comprehensive display of all the ideas that people shared during a conversation .
He developed ( with Harvard professor Yu-Chi Ho ) the Ho-Kashyap rule , an important result ( algorithm ) in pattern recognition .
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers , the International Association for Pattern Recognition , and the Indian Institute of Electronic and Telecommunication Engineers .
See support vector machine s and maximum-margin hyperplane for details .
If a convex loss is utilized ( as in AdaBoost , LogitBoost , and all members of the AnyBoost family of algorithms ) then an example with higher margin will receive less ( or equal ) weight than an example with lower margin .
In nonconvex algorithms ( e.g. BrownBoost ) , the margin still dictates the weighting of an example , though the weighting is non-monotone with respect to margin .
Support vector machine s provably maximize the margin of the separating hyperplane .
More discussion of this can be found in the support vector machine article .
The four-story Gothic / Art Deco building was designed by the architectural firm of Henry & Richmond , and was built in 1929-30 for the Massachusetts College of Art and Design .
The building is now part of the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center .
The scheme is developed for Chinese books , and commonly used in Taiwan , Hong Kong and Macau .
Traditional image quality measures , such as PSNR , are typically performed on fixed resolution images and do not take into account some aspects of the human visual system , like the change in spatial resolution across the retina .
Many researchers from computer science , artificial intelligence and operational research have already acknowledged the need for developing automated systems to replace the role of a human expert in such situations .
One of the main ideas for automating the design of heuristics requires the incorporation of machine learning mechanisms into algorithms to adaptively guide the search .
Examples of on-line learning approaches within hyper-heuristics are : the use of reinforcement learning for heuristic selection , and generally the use of metaheuristics as high-level search strategies over a search space of heuristics .
Many researchers from computer science , artificial intelligence and operational research have already acknowledged the need for developing automated systems to replace the role of a human expert in the process of tuning and adapting search methodologies .
In image processing , stairstep interpolation is a general method for interpolating the pixels after enlarging an image .
Flame is the name of a roughly human-shaped robot , developed in the Netherlands by Daan Hobbelen of the Mechanical Engineering department of Delft University .
Flame works differently from Japan ese robots , which are generally based on assembly line robots and know exactly what to do when because the environment is fixed .
Many methods have been invented to extract a low-dimensional structure from the data set , such as principal component analysis and multidimensional scaling .Liu S , Maljovec D , Wang B , et al .
One of the main fields of data analysis today is machine learning .
Recent work includes investigations of interpretative processes in reasoning and , with Michiel van Lambalgen at the Institute for Logic , Language and Computation in Amsterdam , the use of non-monotonic logic and neural network implementations to model reasoning .
He became a foreign member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2005 .
Patterson lived in and around Houston for 24 years before moving to Iowa City , Iowa , to pursue her Master 's degree in linguistics and PhD in computer science .
Patterson is known for her work in computational linguistics and its applications to computer security .
She has integrated her support vector machine datamining library inside of PostgreSQL to provide a " query-by-example " extension to the SQL language , allowing DBAs to quickly and easily form complex datamining requests based on example positive and negative inputs .
In 2009 at BlackHat , Dan Kaminsky presented joint work with Patterson and Sassaman , revealing pervasive flaws in the Internet 's certificate authority infrastructure .
In spring of 2008 , she published a paper with David Chaum and Len Sassaman
A two-time CodeCon presenter , Patterson married the co-organizer of the event , Len Sassaman , after a public proposal at CodeCon 2006 .
Region growing is a simple region-based image segmentation method .
Time-inhomogeneous hidden Bernoulli model ( TI-HBM ) is an alternative to hidden Markov model ( HMM ) for automatic speech recognition .
This difference leads to elimination of dynamic programming at state-level in TI-HBM decoding process .
Founded in 1997 as a technology festival and LAN party , the event was first held in Málaga , Spain , and has since been run in Brazil , Colombia , El Salvador , Mexico , Ecuador , Argentina , Uruguay , Paraguay , Costa Rica , Singapore , Spain , the Netherlands , the US , Germany and Italy.Thousands of hackers , developers , gamers and geeks equipped with laptops camp out in tents on-site for the conference and hackathon .
In December 1996 " EnRED " , a Spanish youth organization , wanted to found a small , private LAN party held at the Benalmádena Youth Center in Andalucía , Spain .
In 2000 Manuel Toharia , a speaker at previous Campus Parties , and director of Príncipe Felipe 's Museum of Sciences in Valencia 's City of arts and Sciences suggested that Ragageles expand and make the event more international by moving it to the famous museum .
Their headquarters are in Madrid , Spain with satellite offices in Colombia , Mexico , Brazil , London and most recently San Francisco .
The first development of Something Better is " Geeks Sans Frontières " , a volunteer ambassador program which is based on the concept of Médecins Sans Frontières .
The first destinations for the project are Colombia and Ghana .
Campus Party has had a wide range of speakers in its 22-year history , including ex-US Vice President Al Gore , scientist Stephen Hawking , creator of the World Wide Web Tim Berners-Lee and director Alfonso Cuarón .
The focus on astronomy at the event has drawn astronauts Neil Armstrong , Jean-François Clervoy , Ellen Baker and Neri Vela to Campus Party .
The organization 's work with bridging the digital divide has attracted politicians and government figures , including High Commissioner for the United Nations for the Millennium Objective Eveline Herfkens , Brazilian Presidential candidates Marina Silva and Dilma Rousseff , Gilberto Gil , a Grammy Award-winning musician and former Brazilian Minister of Culture , and ex-Mayor of New York City , Rudolph Giuliani .
President of the Robotics Society of America , David Calkins , video game industry icon Tommy Tallarico , founding member of Blizzard Entertainment , Frank Pearce , media theorist Don Tapscott , and Linux International Executive Director Jon " maddog " Hall have all spoken at the even .
The Spanish edition of Campus Party has been held at the Colegio Miguel Hernández , Ceulaj , and the Municipal Sport Arena of Benalmádena in Málaga , Spain ; and at both the Valencia County Fair and the City of Arts and Sciences in Valencia over the past 15 years .
In July 2011 the 15th edition of Campus Party Spain will be held at the City of Arts and Sciences in Valencia .
Kevin Mitnick , David Calkins , Amira Al Hussaini , Carlos Schmukler , Gianluca Fratellini , Jon " Maddog " Hall , David O 'Reilly , Stuart Clark , Julien Fourgeaud and David Bravo are confirmed speakers at the event .
In January 2009 Campus Party Brazil was held at the Center Exposições Imigrantes , and attended by 6,655 Campuseros .
The event was headlined by Tim Berners-Lee creator of The World Wide Web , who spoke about the universality of the Internet and " web 3.0 .
Creative Commons unveiled Version 3.0 of the Creative Commons licenses at Campus Party 2010 .
Campus Party founder Paco Ragageles and José María Álvarez-Pallete , President of Telefónica Latin America announced the Something Better initiative at the event , and Al Gore and Tim Berners-Lee shared the stage to discuss the early days of the web and to discuss their visions for its future .
Steve Wozniak keynoted the event , speaking to the over 6,000 Campuseros about his history as a developer and the founding of the Electronic Frontier Foundation .
Speakers and attendees included Kevin Mitnick , famous hacker turned network security expert , Linux International Executive Director Jon " Maddog " Hall , founding member of Creative Commons Michael Carroll , and President of Wikimedia Argentina , Patricio Lorente , who led a conference about Wikipedia .
The event took place from October 28 to November 1 , 2008 in the Sports City Merlot in San Salvador , El Salvador , and brought together 600 Internet enthusiasts from 22 countries and 2,000 digital literacy visitors to share their expertise and interests to find solutions to close the technological gap and improving social conditions and development in their countries .
Guests included Tim Berners-Lee the inventor of the World Wide Web , Jon " maddog " Hall , president of Linux International , and Rodolfo Neri Vela , the first Mexican to travel to space , among others .
| Apple Apple Inc , Kevin Mitnick , Akira Yamaoka , Ben Hammersley and Wikimedia Foundation Head of Business Partnerships Kul Wadhwa spoke at the event .
The Campus Party Europe was held April 14-18 , 2010 at the Caja Mágica in Madrid , Spain with 800 participants from each of the 27 European Union member states .
Students from northern Portugal Braga University built football playing robots to kick a ball around with Cristiano Ronaldo and Raúl González in celebration of the 2010 World Cup .
The first USA edition of Campus Party will take place from 20 to 22 of August at TCF Center in Detroit , Michigan .
In econometrics and signal processing , a stochastic process is said to be ergodic if its statistical properties can be deduced from a single , sufficiently long , random sample of the process .
In statistics , qualitative comparative analysis ( QCA ) is a data analysis technique for determining which logical conclusions a data set supports .
After being diagnosed with ALS , Stephen 's family founded a non-profit , ALS Therapy Development Institute , in an attempt to slow his disease and treat his symptoms .
Roger Schank , Robert P. Abelson and their research group , extended Tomkins ' scripts and used them in early artificial intelligence work as a method of representing procedural knowledge .
Schank , Abelson and their colleagues tackled some of the most difficult problems in artificial intelligence ( i.e. , story understanding ) , but ultimately their line of work ended without tangible success .
This type of work received little attention after the 1980s , but it is very influential in later knowledge representation techniques , such as case-based reasoning .
Cyclorama came into use in the Nordic countries , .
With the financial backing of the Centre de Développement Technique de l ' École de Technologie Supérieure ( ETS ) de Montréal ( Centech ) they began building a prototype of the robotic lawn mower .
Leslie Pack Kaelbling is an United States roboticist and the Panasonic Professor of Computer Science and Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology .
In 2000 , she was elected as a Fellow of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence .
In the spring of 2000 , she and two-thirds of the editorial board of the Kluwer -owned journal " Machine Learning " resigned in protest to its pay-to-access archives with simultaneously limited financial compensation for authors .
Omnidirectional cameras are important in areas where large visual field coverage is needed , such as in panoramic photography and robotics .
The Guidance , Control and Decision Systems Laboratory ( GCDSL ) is situated in the Department of Aerospace Engineering , Indian Institute of Science , Bangalore , India .
Recently there 's been an emphasis on computer vision and Machine learning for improving versatility and cognitive abilities of robotic platforms .
Chicago Engineering Design Team ( EDT ) is an interdisciplinary engineering and robotics organization made up of students from the University of Illinois at Chicago ( UIC ) .
Henrik Iskov Christensen ( born July 16 , 1962 in Frederikshavn , Denmark ) is a Denmark roboticist and Professor of Computer Science at at UC San Diego .
Prior to UC San Diego , he was a Distinguished Professor of Computer Science in the Georgia Institute of Technology School of Interactive Computing at the Georgia Institute of Technology .
Previously , Christensen was the Founding Chairman of European Robotics Research Network ( EURON ) and an IEEE Robotics and Automation Society Distinguished Lecturer in Robotics .
He received his M.Sc. and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Aalborg University in 1987 and 1990 , respectively .
At Georgia Tech , Christensen served as the founding director of the Center for Robotics and Intelligent Machines ( RIM @ GT ) , an interdepartmental research units consists of the College of Computing , College of Engineering , and the Georgia Tech Research Institute ( GTRI ) .
Law practice management processes and technologies include case and matter management , time and billing , litigation support , research , communication and collaboration , data mining and modeling , and data security , storage , and archive accessibility .
At each step it finds the pair of basis functions that gives the maximum reduction in sum-of-squares residual error ( it is a greedy algorithm ) .
see the Decision tree learning article for details ) .
A convolutional neural network can be trained to take in these predefined traffic signs and ' learn ' using Deep Learning techniques .
The neural net in turn uses Image Processing and Computer Vision to train the network with its potential outcomes .
Other major algorithms for character recognition includes Haar-like feature s , Freeman Chain code , AdaBoost detection and deep learning neural networks methods .
Polygonal approximation of digital curves using Ramer-Douglas-Peucker algorithm can be used to detect the shape of the sign boards and methods like Support Vector Machines and Byte-MCT with an AdaBoost classifier has been used in one of the methods to detect traffic signs .
One of the first versions of the theorem was proved by George Cybenko in 1989 for sigmoid function activation functions.Cybenko , G. ( 1989 ) " , 2 ( 4 ) , 303-314 .
In 2017 , universal approximation theorem was proved for width-bounded deep neural network s .
If one takes " k = p " , the problem reduces to the ordinary Principal component analysis , and the optimal value becomes the largest eigenvalue of covariance matrix " Σ " .
Co-training is a semi-supervised learning technique that requires two " views " of the data .
It has a compatibility mode for Java applications that are not touchscreen-aware .
In signal processing , the coherence is a statistic that can be used to examine the relation between two signals or data sets .
Apache Mahout is a project of the Apache Software Foundation to produce free implementations of distributed or otherwise scalable machine learning algorithms focused primarily on linear algebra .
While Mahout 's core algorithms for Cluster analysis , classification and batch based collaborative filtering are implemented on top of Apache Hadoop using the map / reduce paradigm , it does not restrict contributions to Hadoop-based implementations .
Nikos Paragios ( , born at 1972 ) is a professor of Computer Science and Applied mathematics at CentraleSupélec , senior fellow at the Institut Universitaire de France and affiliated scientific leader at Inria while serving as the editor in chief of the Publishing House.br
He holds a D.Sc. degree in electrical and computer engineering ( 2000 ) from Inria and the University of Nice Sophia Antipolis , and has held permanent positions at Siemens Corporate Technology , École des ponts ParisTech as well as visiting positions at Rutgers University , Yale University and University of Houston .
PyroBot is a Python library with some C + + code for processing camera images .
The IACSR was founded in 2006 , and the inaugural meeting took place in Aarhus University , in Denmark .
Third General Assembly : August 16 , 2010 , University of Toronto , Canada .
Joseph Bulbulia , Maclaurin Goodfellow Chair , University of Auckland
John H. Shaver , Lecturer , University of Otago
In an NLP text every sentence unambiguously compiles into a procedure call in the underlying high-level programming language such as MATLAB , Octave , SciLab , Python , etc .
In interface design , natural-language interfaces are sought after for their speed and ease of use , but most suffer the challenges to natural language understanding wide varieties of ambiguous input .Hill , I. ( 1983 ) .
Natural-language interfaces are an active area of study in the field of natural-language processing and computational linguistics .
A natural-language search engine would in theory find targeted question answering ( as opposed to keyword search ) .
For example , when confronted with a question of the form ' which United States state has the highest income tax ? ' , conventional search engines ignore the question and instead search on the keywords ' state ' , ' income ' and ' tax ' .
The application uses natural language processing to answer questions and make recommendations .
Much work is being accomplished in the national and international standards communities , especially ANSI ( American National Standards Institute ) and International Organization for Standardization ( International Organization for Standardization ) to reach consensus on standardizing metadata and registries .
The core metadata registry standard is International Organization for Standardization / IEC 11179 Metadata Registries ( MDR ) , the framework for the standard is described in ISO / IEC 11179-1 : 2004 .
Bulk collection of this call detail record metadata by intelligence agencies has proven controversial after disclosures by Edward Snowden of the fact that certain Intelligence agencies such as the NSA had been ( and perhaps still are ) keeping online metadata on millions of internet user for up to a year , regardless of whether or not they ever were persons of interest to the agency .
Problems involving metadata in litigation in the United States are becoming widespread .
He attended the Inter-University Center for Japanese Language Studies in 1979 .
Evans was elected a Fellow of the American College of Medical Informatics in 1999 .
In pattern recognition , the iDistance is an indexing and query processing technique for k-nearest neighbor queries on point data in multi-dimensional metric space s .
Amie Street acquired Songza , a product created by Aza Raskin and Scott Robbin , in October 2008 .
Sometimes the term " chatbot " is used to refer to virtual assistants generally or specifically accessed by online chat .
A similar concept , however with differences , lays under the dialogue system .Klüwer , Tina .
About ten years later the same group of scientists developed a system that could analyze not only individual words but entire word sequences enabled by a Hidden Markov Model .
Virtual assistants use natural language processing ( NLP ) to match user text or voice input to executable commands .
Many continually learn using artificial intelligence techniques including machine learning .
Despite its smaller size in comparison to the North American market , the intelligent virtual assistant industry from the Asia-Pacific region , with its main players located in India and China is predicted to grow at an annual growth rate of 40 % ( above global average ) over the 2016-2024 period .
The browser incorporates Mozilla ' s .
Photometric stereo is a technique in computer vision for estimating the surface normals of objects by observing that object under different lighting conditions .
Robotics is the branch of technology that deals with the design , construction , operation , structural disposition , manufacture and application of robot s .
The following is a list of common definitions related to the Robotics field .
Online Robotics glossary repositories :
The European Neural Network Society ( ENNS ) is an association of scientists , engineers , students , and others seeking to learn about and advance understanding of neural network .
Coordinated attack on Miley Cyrus , Talk : Miley Cyrus , and September 6 , all inserting statements about a false death .
This framework has been developed by Leonid Perlovsky at the AFRL .
" Yale vs. Harvard " is a 1927 " Our Gang " short silent comedy film directed by Robert F. McGowan .
It can be used for quality control to check dimensions , angles , colour or surface structure-or for the object recognition as used in VGR systems .
The " Pinakes " ( ) is a lost bibliographic work composed by Callimachus ( 310 / 305-240 BCE ) that is popularly considered to be the first library catalog ; its contents were based upon the holdings of the Library of Alexandria during Callimachus ' tenure there during the third century BCE.N. Krevans 2002 : 173
Apollonius of Rhodes was the successor to Zenodotus .
Eratosthenes of Cyrene succeeded Apollonius in 235 BCE and compiled his " tetagmenos epi teis megaleis bibliothekeis " , the " scheme of the great bookshelves .
IRL researcher Stuart J. Russell proposes that IRL might be used to observe humans and attempt to codify their complex " ethical values , " in an effort to create " ethical robots " that might someday know " not to cook your cat " without needing to be explicitly told.Hadfield-Menell , D. , Russell , S. J. , Abbeel , Pieter & Dragan , A. ( 2016 ) .
In 2017 , OpenAI and DeepMind applied deep learning to the cooperative inverse reinforcement learning in simple domains such as Atari games and straightforward robot tasks such as backflips .
Apprenticeship via inverse reinforcement learning ( AIRP ) was developed by in 2004 Pieter Abbeel , Professor in Berkeley ' s EE Computer science department , and Andrew Ng , Associate Professor in Stanford University ' s Computer Science Department .
In 1997 , robotics expert Stefan Schaal was working on the Sarcos robot-arm .
The software consists of a set of MATLAB routines interfaced with C libraries that can be used to perform the tasks that constitute a typical study of neurobiological data .
Much of Chronux is written in MATLAB with certain intensive computations being coded in C with a MEX interface to MATLAB .
Its founding editor-in-chiefs were Ron Sun , Vasant Honavar , and Gregg Oden ( from 1999 to 2014 ) .
More generally , a similarity measure can be used to Cluster analysis , such as for collaborative filtering in a recommender system , in which " similar " users and items are grouped based on the users " preferences .
In VLDB ' 08 : Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases , pages 422--433. showed that the given values for mathC / math and mathK / math generally imply relatively low accuracy of iteratively computed SimRank scores .
Chabot , Hanrahan and Stolte were researchers at the Department of Computer Science at Stanford University The company was started as a commercial outlet for research produced at Stanford between 1999-2002 .
In June 2018 , Tableau acquired Empirical Systems , a Cambridge , Massachusetts based artificial intelligence startup , with plans to integrate the company 's technology into the Tableau platform .
In 2008 , Tableau was named a Codie award winner for " Best Business Intelligence Solution " by the Software and Information Industry Association .
The professional branch of the company started in 1996 with delivery of special devices ( siderostat s ) for the European Southern Observatory ( ESO ) .
Recent telescope projects include the Hamburg Robotic Telescope HRT of the " Hamburger Sternwarte " ( Hamburg Observatory ) completed in 2005 , the MONET telescope s installed at McDonald Observatory in Texas , and the South African Astronomical Observatory in South Africa .
STELLA and RoboTel telescopes erected at Izana Observatory in Tenerife and at Potsdam , Germany , and IRIS Infrared telescope to be installed at Cerro Armazones Observatory in Chile .
According to Klas and Schrefl ( 1995 ) , the " overall goal of semantic data models is to capture more meaning of data by integrating relational concepts with more powerful abstraction concepts known from the Artificial Intelligence field .
Both the language-independent tools and the main client libraries ( C + + , Python , and Lisp ) are released under the terms of the BSD license , and as such are open source software and free for both commercial and research use .
They ended up awarding eleven PR2s to different institutions , including University of Freiburg , Bosch , Georgia Tech , KU Leuven , MIT , Stanford , Technical University of Munich , UC Berkeley , U Penn , USC , and University of Tokyo .
Most notably , David Cope has written a software system called " Experiments in Musical Intelligence " ( or " EMI " ) that is capable of analyzing and generalizing from existing music by a human composer to generate novel musical compositions in the same style .
This involves natural language processing .
Using a language database ( such as wordnet ) one can create musings on a subject that may be weak grammatically but are still sensical .
Wolpert , D. , & Zoubin Ghahramani ( 2004 ) .
In computer science , online machine learning is a method of machine learning in which data becomes available in a sequential order and is used to update the best predictor for future data at each step , as opposed to batch learning techniques which generate the best predictor by learning on the entire training data set at once .
Online learning algorithms may be prone to catastrophic interference , a problem that can be addressed by incremental learning approaches .
In the setting of supervised learning , a function of math f : X \ to Y / math is to be learned , where mathX / math is thought of as a space of inputs and mathY / math as a space of outputs , that predicts well on instances that are drawn from a joint probability distribution mathp ( x , y ) / math on mathX \ times Y / math .
Mini-batch techniques are used with repeated passing over the training data to obtain optimized out-of-core versions of machine learning algorithms , for example , stochastic gradient descent .
When combined with backpropagation , this is currently the de facto training method for training artificial neural networks .
This method can thus be looked as a greedy algorithm .
One can use the OSD algorithm to derive math O ( \ sqrt { T } ) / math regret bounds for the online version of Support vector machine for classification , which use the hinge loss math v _ t ( w ) = \ max \ { 0 , 1 - y _ t ( w \ cdot x _ t ) \ } / math
The optimal regularization in hindsight can be derived for linear loss functions , this leads to the AdaGrad algorithm .
The first interpretation consider the stochastic gradient descent method as applied to the problem of minimizing the expected risk mathI w / math defined above .
Eugene Goostman is a chatbot that some regard as having passed the Turing test , a test of a computer 's ability to communicate indistinguishably from a human .
In June 2012 , at an event marking what would have been the 100th birthday of the test 's namesake , Alan Turing , Goostman won a competition promoted as the largest-ever Turing test contest , in which it successfully convinced 29 % of its judges that it was human .
On 7 June 2014 , at a contest marking the 60th anniversary of Turing 's death , 33 % of the event 's judges thought that Goostman was human ; the event 's organiser Kevin Warwick considered it to have passed Turing 's test as a result , per Turing 's prediction in his 1950 paper Computing Machinery and Intelligence , that by the year 2000 , machines would be capable of fooling 30 % of human judges after five minutes of questioning .
Eugene Goostman has competed in a number of Turing test competitions , including the Loebner Prize contest ; it finished joint second in the Loebner test in 2001 , On 23 June 2012 , Goostman won a Turing test competition at Bletchley Park in Milton Keynes , held to mark the centenary of its namesake , Alan Turing .
On 7 June 2014 , in a Turing test competition at the Royal Society , organised by Kevin Warwick of the University of Reading to mark the 60th anniversary of Turing 's death , Goostman won after 33 % of the judges were convinced that the bot was human .
30 judges took part in the event , which included Lord Sharkey , a sponsor of Turing 's posthumous pardon , artificial intelligence Professor Aaron Sloman , Fellow of the Royal Society Mark Pagel and " Red Dwarf " actor Robert Llewellyn .
Cleverbot 's developer , Rollo Carpenter , argued that Turing tests can only prove that a machine can " imitate " intelligence rather than show actual intelligence .
Gary Marcus was critical of Warwick 's claims , arguing that Goostman 's " success " was only the result of a " cleverly-coded piece of software , " going on to say that " it 's easy to see how an untrained judge might mistake wit for reality , but once you have an understanding of how this sort of system works , the constant misdirection and deflection becomes obvious , even irritating .
Imperial College London professor Murray Shanahan questioned the validity and scientific basis of the test , stating that it was " completely misplaced , and it devalues real Artificial intelligence research .
Mike Masnick , editor of the blog " Techdirt " , was also skeptical , questioning publicity blunders such as the five chatbots being referred to in press releases as " supercomputer s , " and saying that " creating a chatbot that can fool humans is not really the same thing as creating artificial intelligence .
Robots of the United States include simple household robots such as Roomba to sophisticated autonomous aircraft such as the MQ-9 Reaper that cost 18 million dollars per unit .
In 1898 Nikola Tesla publicly demonstrated a radio-controlled torpedo .
Unimate was the first industrial robot ,
It was created by George Devol in the 1950s using his original patents .
Sequential minimal optimization ( SMO ) is an algorithm for solving the quadratic programming ( QP ) problem that arises during the training of support-vector machine s ( SVM ) .
Consider a binary classification problem with a dataset ( " x " sub1 / sub , " y " sub1 / sub ) , ... , ( " x " sub " n " / sub , " y " sub " n " / sub ) , where " x " sub " i " / sub is an input vector and is a binary label corresponding to it .
A soft-margin support vector machine is trained by solving a quadratic programming problem , which is expressed in the dual form as follows :
The SMO algorithm is closely related to a family of optimization algorithms called Bregman method s or row-action methods .
Early development in Natural Language Processing , like the IBM Shoebox , has influenced development in fields such as speech recognition , including things like " voice dialing , " " call routing , " and " automated appliance control .
Information gain ratio biases the Decision tree learning " against " considering attributes with a large number of distinct values .
Initially , temporal expressions were considered a type of named entities and their identification was part of the named entity recognition task .
SDL plc is a multinational professional services company headquartered in Maidenhead , United Kingdom .
It opened its first overseas office in France in 1996
Computer science , information science and systems engineering , ontology engineering is a field which studies the methods and methodologies for building ontologies : formal representations of a set of concepts within a domain and the relationships between those concepts .
Application areas of ontology-based reasoning include , but are not limited to , information retrieval , automated scene interpretation , and knowledge discovery .
Japan .
Google Translate is one of the most highly-utilized translation services .
server which will apply Optical Character Recognition ( OCR )
One method that has been utilized to mitigate the lack of accuracy in mobile translation , is ontology learning combined with terminology extraction to identify frequently-used phrases , semantic interpretation to determine the correct context and meaning of a given phrase , and implementation of a data structure to store the nuances found in the prior multi-meaning terms and phrases .
The introduction of kernel function provide additional flexibility to the One-class SVM ( OSVM ) algorithm .
A similar problem is PU learning , in which a binary classification is learned in a semi-supervised learning way from only " positive " and " unlabeled " sample points .
A variety of techniques exist to adapt supervised learning classifiers to the PU learning setting , including variants of the EM algorithm .
The Klann mechanism uses six links per leg , whereas the Jansen 's linkage developed by Theo Jansen uses eight links per leg , with one degree of freedom .
IBM SPSS Modeler is a data mining and text analytics software application from IBM .
Clementine was originally developed by a UK company named Integral Solutions Limited ( ISL ) , in Collaboration with Artificial Intelligence researchers at Sussex University .
In early 2000 the software was developed into a client / server architecture , and shortly afterward the client front-end interface component was completely re-written and replaced with a new Java front-end , which allowed deeper integration with the other tools provided by SPSS .
The graphical user interface is written in Java .
Jollo was a free Web 2.0 website that attempted to improve the way in which people translate online through the use of existing machine translation websites and a community of volunteers who correct and rate translations .
MAHRU & AHRA are humanoid robot s design and developed by Korea Institute of Science and Technology .
This process is most commonly used in image processing for object detection and tracking , primarily facial detection and recognition .
Sampson 's book is a response to Steven Pinker ' s " The Language Instinct " specifically and Chomskyan linguistic nativism broadly .
Ivar Mauritz Aronsson ( 24 March 1928 & ndash ; 6 February 2017 ) was a Sweden rower who competed in the 1956 Summer Olympics .
One of the first scientists to come up with a working brain interface to restore sight was a private researcher William H. Dobelle .
In contrast to replacement technologies , in 2002 , under the heading Project Cyborg , a British scientist , Kevin Warwick , had an array of 100 electrodes fired into his nervous system in order to link his nervous system into the internet to investigate enhancement possibilities .
Finally , with electrodes also implanted into his wife 's nervous system , they conducted the first direct electronic communication experiment between the nervous systems of two humans.Warwick , K , Gasson , M , Hutt , B , Goodhew , I , Kyberd , P , Schulzrinne , H and Wu , X : " Thought Communication and Control : A First Step using Radiotelegraphy , " Institution of Electrical Engineers Proceedings on Communications , 151 ( 3 ) , pp.185-189 , 2004
Michael Chorost wrote a memoir of his experience with cochlear implants , or bionic ear , titled " Rebuilt : How Becoming Part Computer Made Me More Human .
In 2009 at the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers ( IEEE ) Micro-electronic mechanical systems ( MEMS ) conference in Italy , researchers demonstrated the first " wireless " flying-beetle cyborg.Ornes , Stephen .
Some artists who create such works are Neil Harbisson , Moon Ribas , Patricia Piccinini , Steve Mann , Orlan , H. R. Giger , Lee Bul , Wafaa Bilal , Tim Hawkinson and Stelarc .
The cyborg was also a central part of singer Janelle Monáe ' s 48-minute video corresponding with the release of her 2018 album " Dirty Computer .
In 2010 , the Cyborg Foundation became the world 's first international organization dedicated to help humans become cyborgs.García , F.C. " , 20 Nov 2010
Pierre Baldi is a distinguished professor of computer science at University of California Irvine , retrieved 2009-04-03 .
Born in Rome ( Italy ) , Pierre Baldi received his Bachelor of Science and Master of Science degrees at the University of Paris , in France ..
Baldi 's research interests include artificial intelligence , statistical machine learning , and data mining , and their applications to problems in the life sciences in genomics , proteomics , systems biology , computational neuroscience , and , recently , deep learning .
Baldi is a fellow of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence ( AAAI ) , He is also the recipient of the
2010 Eduardo R. Caianiello Prize for Scientific Contributions to the field of Neural Network s and a fellow of the International Society for Computational Biology ( ISCB ) .
It has implications for critical periods in development , for bilingual education and reading readiness , for developmental disabilities involving language , and for research on speech recognition .
She has discussed her research findings on early learning and the brain on The Today Show , Good Morning America , CBS Evening News , NBC Nightly News , NHK , CNN , and in The New York Times , Time , TED ( conference ) , and Newsweek .
Kuhl is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences , the Rodin Academy , and the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters .
She has also been elected a fellow in the American Association for the Advancement of Science , the American Psychological Association , the Cognitive Science Society , and the Association for Psychological Science .
In 2018 she received the APA Award for Distinguished Scientific Contributions to Psychology from the American Psychological Association .
The organizing committee included Roger Schank , Allan M. Collins , Donald Norman , and a number of other scholars from psychology , linguistics , computer science , and philosophy .
It currently has over 1500 members , including a significant number from countries other than the United States .
She has been elected as a fellow in the American Philosophical Society , the Association for Psychological Science , the Society of Experimental Psychologists , the Cognitive Science Society , the American Association for the Advancement of Science , the American Academy of Arts and Sciences , and the National Academy of Sciences .
The impact of Gleitman 's research in language acquisition has been recognized by numerous organizations , and she has been elected as a fellow in the American Psychological Association , the Association for Psychological Science ,
She specializes in the cognitive neuroscience of visual perception , with a specific focus on object recognition .
She received a B.A. in speech and hearing therapy from the University of Witwatersrand in Johannesburg , South Africa in 1981 ; an M.A. in speech pathology from the University of Witwatersrand in 1984 , and a Ph.D. in Psychology from the University of Toronto in 1991 .
From 1991 to 1993 , Behrmann worked in the Departments of Psychology and Medicine of the University of Toronto , and in 1993 , she accepted a position as a faculty member in the Department of Psychology at Carnegie Mellon University , where she has remained since .
She has also held an adjunct professor ship in the Departments of Neuroscience and Communication Disorders at the University of Pittsburgh since 1994 , and she has served as a Visiting Professor at the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel in 2000-2001 and the University of Toronto in 2006-2007 .
She was elected a member of the National Academy of Sciences in 2018 .
Carey received a B.A. from Radcliffe College in 1964 , a Fulbright scholarship to study in University of London in 1965 , and a Ph.D. in Experimental psychology from Harvard University in 1971 .
Carey is a member of the American Philosophical Society , National Academy of Sciences , the American Academy of Arts and Sciences , the National Academy of Educational Sciences of Ukraine , and the British Academy .
She was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2001 .
Carey is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and has received many academic awards and distinctions , including the Jean Nicod Prize for philosophy of mind in 1998 .
She also authored " The Origin of Concepts " for which she won the 2010 Eleanor Maccoby Book Award from the American Psychological Association .
She is a Fellow of the New York Institute for the Humanities .
She has served as the Chair of the Cognitive Science Society Board , President of the Cognitive Development Society , Division 7 ( Developmental ) of the American Psychological Association , the Eastern Psychological Association and as Chair of the Board of Scientific Affairs of the American Psychological Association .
She has been elected as a Fellow in various societies including the American Academy of Arts and Sciences , the Society of Experimental Psychologists , the Association for Psychological Science , four divisions of the American Psychological Association , and the American Association for the Advancement of Science .
Her book with Janellen Huttenlocher in 2003 , " Making Space " , ) .
She was the chair of the Section on Linguistics and Language Sciences for the American Association for the Advancement of Science , and a member-at-large of the Psychology Section and the Linguistics and Language Science Section of the AAAS .
She has served a member of the Governing Board of the Cognitive Science Society and the Board of Directors of the Association for Psychological Science .
She is currently a member of the Foundation Board of the Federation of Associations in Behavioral & Brain Sciences ( FABBS ) .
In addition , she was a member of the Committee on Integrating the Science of Early Childhood Development , sponsored by the Board on Children , Youth , and Families of the National Research Council and the Institute of Medicine--the product of this committee was Neurons to Neighborhoods , published by the National Academy of Sciences .
Goldin-Meadow was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and is a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science , the Association for Psychological Science , the American Psychological Association ( in Developmental Psychology and Experimental Psychology ) , the Cognitive Science Society , and the Linguistic Society of America .
Goldin-Meadow presented the Nijmegen Lectures at the Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics in the Netherlands , and has served as an APA Distinguished Scientist Lecturer , an APS William James Distinguished Lecturer , and an APA Master Lecturer .
The use of hashtags was first proposed by Chris Messina in a 2007 tweet , Formal taxonomies can be developed from the folk taxonomy rendered machine-readable by the markup that hashtags provide .
The first published use of the term " hash tag " was in a blog post by Stowe Boyd , " Hash Tags = Twitter Groupings , " on August 26 , 2007 , according to lexicographer Ben Zimmer , chair of the American Dialect Society ' s New Words Committee .
Jimmy Fallon and Justin Timberlake performed a sketch parodying the often incorrect and misunderstood use of hashtags on " Late Night with Jimmy Fallon " in September 2013 .
The term " hashtag rap , " coined by Kanye West ,
She worked at the University of Toronto before joining the faculty at UC Berkeley in 1988 .
Judea Pearl , developer of Bayesian networks , says Gopnik was one of the first psychologists to note that the mathematical models also resemble how children learn .
These models could be used to develop better algorithms for artificial intelligence .
Gopnik argued that Hume had access to the library of the Royal College at La Flèche , a Society of Jesus institution that had been founded by Henri IV .
His brothers , Goldie and Norm both played for Fitzroy .
The program 's activities involved data mining of a large database of the communications of American citizens , including e-mail communications , telephone conversations , financial transactions , and internet activity .
In June 2013 the " Washington Post " and the " Guardian " published an Office of the Inspector General ( OIG ) draft report , dated March 2009 , leaked by Edward Snowden detailing the Stellar Wind program.ref name = OIG1 / No doubt remained about the continuing nature of the surveillance program .
He programmed a number of Digital signal processing algorithms that were used in major motion picture features .
The former concerns the probability with which an extended support vector machine attributes a binary label 1 to the points of the math ( x , y ) / math plane .
" Night and Day " is the forty-sixth studio album by country singer Willie Nelson , released on July 13 , 1999 .
Robotics is an interdisciplinary research area at the interface of computer science and engineering .
Robotics draws on the achievement of information engineering , computer engineering , mechanical engineering , electronic engineering and others .
Today , robotics is a rapidly growing field , as technological advances continue ; researching , designing , and building new robots serve various practical purposes , whether domestically , industrial robot , or militarily .
This field overlaps with computer engineering , computer science ( especially artificial intelligence ) , electronics , mechatronics , nanotechnology and bioengineering .
The word " robotics " was derived from the word " robot " , which was introduced to the public by Czechoslovakia writer Karel Čapek in his play " R.U.R. ( Rossum 's Universal Robots ) " , which was published in 1920 .
The first digitally operated and programmable robot , the Unimate , was installed in 1961 to lift hot pieces of metal from a die casting machine and stack them .
Commercial and industrial robot s are widespread today and used to perform jobs more cheaply , more accurately and more reliably , than humans .
Scientists from several European countries and Israel developed a prosthetic hand in 2009 , called SmartHand , which functions like a real one - allowing patients to write with it , type on a keyboard , play piano and perform other fine movements .
Computer vision is the science and technology of machines that see .
Several one-wheeled balancing robots have been designed recently , such as Carnegie Mellon University ' s " Ballbot " that is the approximate height and width of a person , and Tohoku Gakuin University ' s " BallIP .
Several robots , built in the 1980s by Marc Raibert at the MIT Leg Laboratory , successfully demonstrated very dynamic walking .
Perhaps the most promising approach utilizes passive dynamics where the momentum of swinging limbs is used for greater efficiency .
Also , self-controlled cars , Ernst Dickmanns ' driverless car , and the entries in the DARPA Grand Challenge , are capable of sensing the environment well and subsequently making navigational decisions based on this information , including by a swarm of autonomous robots .
These new concepts are grounded from low-level continuous sensor data through unsupervised learning , and task goals are subsequently learned using a Bayesian approach .
Finally , motion planning and other artificial intelligence techniques may be used to figure out how to act .
This term is coined by Professor Hans Moravec , Principal Research Scientist at the Carnegie Mellon University Robotics Institute in describing the near future evolution of robot technology .
This need to combine optimal skills has resulted in collaborative robots and humans sharing a common workspace more closely and led to the development of new approaches and standards to guarantee the safety of the " man-robot merger .
Anybots Inc. is a robotics company founded in 2001 by Trevor Blackwell in Santa Clara , California .
Lertap5 was developed by Larry Nelson at Curtin University and is available from
R is a programming environment designed for statistical computing and production of graphics .
The LS3 was used by Marines in July 2014 during Exercise RIMPAC 2014 .
This field of study has its historical roots in numerous disciplines including machine learning , experimental psychology and Bayesian statistics .
Pierre-Simon Laplace , Thomas Bayes , Harold Jeffreys , Richard Threlkeld Cox and Edwin Jaynes developed mathematical techniques and procedures for treating probability as the degree of plausibility that could be assigned to a given supposition or hypothesis based on the available evidence.Jaynes , E. T. , 1986 , ' Bayesian Methods : General Background , ' in Maximum-Entropy and Bayesian Methods in Applied Statistics , J. H. Justice ( ed .
This idea was taken up in research on unsupervised learning , in particular the Analysis by Synthesis approach , branches of machine learning .
Zoubin Ghahramani ( 2004 ) .
In 1983 Geoffrey Hinton and colleagues proposed the brain could be seen as a machine making decisions based on the uncertainties of the outside world.Fahlman , S.E. , Hinton , G.E. and Sejnowski , T.J. ( 1983 ) .
George and Jeff Hawkins published a paper that establishes a model of cortical information processing called hierarchical temporal memory that is based on Bayesian network of Markov chain s .
During the 1990s some researchers such as Geoffrey Hinton and Karl Friston began examining the concept of free energy as a calculably tractable measure of the discrepancy between actual features of the world and representations of those features captured by neural network models.Hinton , G. E. and Zemel , R. S. ( 1994 ) , of the world are updated by sensory information to minimize free energy or the discrepancy between sensory input and predictions of that input .
News analytics are usually derived through automated text analysis and applied to digital texts using elements from natural language processing and machine learning such as latent semantic analysis , support vector machines , " bag of words " among other techniques .
So , what does one do when there is uncertainty about the value of the membership function ? The answer to this question was provided in 1975 by the inventor of fuzzy sets , Prof. Lotfi A. Zadeh , when he proposed more sophisticated kinds of fuzzy sets , the first of which he called a " type-2 fuzzy set " .
IBM ' s Automatic Language Translator was a machine translation system that converted Russian documents into English .
Another addition was an Optical character recognition provided by the third party , which they hoped would eliminate the time-consuming process of copying the Russian text into machine-readable cards .
Gort is a fictional humanoid robot that appeared first in the 1951 20th Century Fox United States science fiction film " The Day the Earth Stood Still " and later in its 2008 remake .
Gort does not speak , but he can receive and follow verbal commands ( including the famous dialog line " Klaatu barada nikto , " spoken by actor Patricia Neal ' s character toward the end of the film ) , as well non-verbal commands : at one point , Klaatu communicates with him using reflected signals from a borrowed flashlight .
He was portrayed by seven-foot , seven-inch ( 231 cm ) -tall actor Lock Martin wearing a thick foam-rubber suit designed and built by Addison Hehr .
Owen Gleiberman writes that " Gort isn 't so lovey-dovey " in the remake ; rather , " he 's like a super-tall , obsidian Oscar statue wreaking havoc .
A photo of Gort , with Ringo Starr ( as Klaatu ) , appears on the cover of Starr 's 1974 " Goodnight Vienna " album .
Though ratified as a TDWG / Biodiversity Information Standards standard since then , Darwin Core has had numerous previous versions in production usage .
Neural Lab is a free neural network simulator that designs and trains artificial neural networks for use in engineering , business , computer science and technology .
The code is very similar to C / C + + , Java or C # .
The Player Project ( formerly the " Player / Stage Project " ) is a project to create free software for research into robotics and sensor systems.Gerkey , B. , Vaughan , R. , and Howard , A. ( 2003 ) The Player / Stage Project : Tools for Multi-Robot and Distributed Sensor Systems .
The specification standard of RT-components is discussed and defined by the Object Management Group ( OMG ) .
Malcolm Gladwell ,
University of Michigan School of Information ) to collaborate .
She is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a fellow of the American Psychological Society and Society of Experimental Psychologists .
In 2013 , she received the William James Fellow Award from the Association for Psychological Science .ref name = " aps2014 " / Here are some of her other awards that she has received for her work in psychology :
In digital signal processing ( DSP ) , the continuous time variable , t , with units of " seconds " , is replaced by the discrete integer variable , n , with units of " samples " .
Some programs ( such as MATLAB ) that design filters with real-valued coefficients use the Nyquist frequency ( math \ textstyle f _ s / 2 / math ) as the normalization constant .
Natural scene statistics are useful for defining the behavior of an ideal observer in a natural task , typically by incorporating signal detection theory , information theory , or estimation theory .
In machine learning , correlation clustering or cluster editing operates in a scenario where the relationships between the objects are known instead of the actual representations of the objects .
Correlation clustering also relates to a different task , where correlation s among attributes of feature vector s in a high-dimensional space are assumed to exist guiding the cluster analysis .
This effect was first observed by Germany - United States psychologist Wolfgang Köhler in 1929.ref name = Kohler1929
" Faustina " is a 1957 Spanish comedy film directed by José Luis Sáenz de Heredia .
This is the use of algorithms or other mathematical techniques that allow the pattern recognition or correlation s in large quantities of data , aggregated in database s .
This is called top-down profiling or supervised learning .
On the other hand , profiles can be generated by exploring a data base , using the data mining process to detect patterns in the data base that were not previously hypothesized .
This is called unsupervised learning .
In September 2015 , Kathleen Richardson of De Montfort University and Erik Billing of the University of Skövde created the ' , calling for a ban on the creation of anthropomorphic sex robots.Other articles :
In September 2015 , the Japanese company SoftBank , the makers of the " Pepper " robot , included a ban on robot sex .
Noel Sharkey Aimee van Wynsberghe and Eleanor Hancock of the Foundation for Responsible Robotics released a consultation report presenting a summary of the issues and various opinions about what could be society 's intimate association with robots .
He personally designed and wrote many of the advanced Digital signal processing algorithms for the Sonic Solutions " NoNOISE " process which is used to restore vintage recordings for CD remastering .
He received his PhD in computer science from Stanford University in 1975 .
In 1991 , he won the Audio Engineering Society Silver award for lifetime achievement .
In 1999 , he won an Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences Scientific and Engineering Award for his pioneering work in the design of digital signal processing and its application to audio editing for film .
Iterative descent clustering methods , such as the SOM and k-means clustering circumvent some of the shortcomings of hierarchical clustering by providing for univocally defined clusters and cluster boundaries .
They proposed information theoretic distance measures , and they propose genetic algorithm s for finding the best aggregation solution .
The event is one of the largest robotics challenges in the world and one of the highest stakes UAV challenges , with the current Medical Express version of the event offering $ 75,000 to the winner .
A popular way to make a color space like RGB into an absolute color is to define an International Color Consortium profile , which contains the attributes of the RGB .
The key insight to the algorithm is that a matrix mathA / math corresponding to the transformation can be found by defining a differentiable objective function for mathA / math , followed by use of an iterative solver such as Conjugate gradient method .
We can resolve this difficulty by using an approach inspired by stochastic gradient descent .
Obtaining a gradient for mathA / math means that it can be found with an iterative solver such as Conjugate gradient method .
Explanation-based learning ( EBL ) is a form of machine learning that exploits a very strong , or even perfect , domain theory in order to make generalizations or form concepts from training examples .
During the online process , TeLQAS processes the question using a natural language processing component that implements part-of-speech tagging and simple syntactic parsing .
Gelman was elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences in 2008 and the National Academy of Sciences in 2012 .
She is currently Chair of the Governing Board of the Cognitive Science Society and President-Elect of the Society for Philosophy and Psychology .
Her contribution to cognitive and developmental psychology has had significant impact in the field and has been recognized by awards such as the American Psychological Society ' s William James Fellow Award for Lifetime Achievement in Basic Research and the American Psychological Association " s Division 7 Outstanding Mentoring Award .
She was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2003 and the National Academy of Sciences in 2011 .
Like the Rand index , the baseline value of mutual information between two random clusterings does not take on a constant value , and tends to be larger when the two partitions have a larger number of clusters ( with a fixed number of set elements " N " ) .
The use of the pay-off method is lately taught within the larger framework of real options , for example at the Lappeenranta University of Technology and at the Tampere University of Technology in Finland .
Fiji is most popular in the life sciences community , where the 3D Viewer image segmentation , and other advanced image processing algorithms .
The scripting framework , which supports JavaScript , Jython , JRuby , Clojure , BeanShell , and other languages , is an integral part of the development of Fiji ; many developers prototype their plugins in one of the mentioned scripting languages , and gradually turn the prototypes into proper Java code .
Gordon Thompson was a songwriter who co-wrote the song " The Thing-Ummy Bob " with David Heneker .
Depending on the types of sensors used and the software-driven intelligence of the image processing system , optical sorters can recognize objects ' color , size , shape , structural properties and chemical composition .
It was initially developed by Marco Kögler and Oliver Obst at the University of Koblenz and Landau in Koblenz , Germany .
For example , " What is the fifty-second smallest country by GDP per capita ? " yields Syria , $ 2033 per year ( as of 2019 ) .
LumenVox is a privately held speech recognition software company , based in San Diego , California .
A hidden Markov model is a Markov chain for which the state is only partially observable .
One common use is for speech recognition , where the observed data is the speech audio waveform and the hidden state is the spoken text .
It is closely related to reinforcement learning , and can be solved with value iteration and related methods .
The research about the web intelligence covers ! --spans over-- many fields - including data mining ( in particular web mining ) , information retrieval , pattern recognition , predictive analytics , the semantic web , web data warehousing - typically with a focus on web personalization and adaptive website s .
BIRCH ( balanced iterative reducing and clustering using hierarchies ) is an unsupervised data mining algorithm used to perform hierarchical clustering over particularly large data-sets .
The Constituent Likelihood Automatic Word-tagging System or CLAWS is a program that performs part-of-speech tagging .
CLAWS uses a Hidden Markov model to determine the likelihood of sequences of words / parts of speech .
Lingoes is a dictionary and machine translation app .
Add-ons for " Wikipedia " , " Baidu Baike " , " Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English " , " Merriam-Webster 's Collegiate Dictionary " , " WordNet " , " MacMillan English Dictionary " , " Collins English Dictionary " and other cross-English dictionaries ( e.g. Arabic , French or German ) are available in Lingoes ' official website.ref name = Languages
Lingoes also offers a whole-text translation ability using online translation service providers like Google Translate , Yahoo ! Babel Fish Translation , SYSTRAN , Cross Language , Click2Translate and others .
" Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery " is a bimonthly peer-reviewed scientific journal focusing on data mining published by Springer Science + Business Media .
This problem has been identified in computer science and cognitive science as an important obstacle : computers need to load programs to start but this is best done when they have already loaded the program for doing this ; reading is easier to acquire once a person can already read .
In signal processing , particularly digital image processing , ringing artifacts are artifacts that appear as spurious signals near sharp transitions in a signal .
In statistics and data mining , X-means clustering is a variation of k-means clustering that refines cluster assignments by repeatedly attempting subdivision , and keeping the best resulting splits , until a criterion such as the Akaike information criterion ( AIC ) or Bayesian information criterion ( BIC ) is reached .
For example : The " k " -means model is " almost " a Gaussian mixture model and one can construct a likelihood for the Gaussian mixture model and thus also determine information criterion values .
Rate distortion theory has been applied to choosing " k " called the " jump " method , which determines the number of clusters that maximizes efficiency while minimizing error by Information theory standards .
The distortion of a clustering of some input data is formally defined as follows : Let the data set be modeled as a " p " -dimensional random variable , " X " , consisting of a Gaussian mixture model of " G " components with common covariance , .
One can also use the process of cross-validation to analyze the number of clusters .
Terry realized that with the help of advanced speech recognition technology he could streamline the data acquisition process and provide parents with a tool that was easy to use and could thoroughly chart a child 's natural language environment .
In data mining , " k " -means + + { { Cite conference
In image processing and computer vision , anisotropic diffusion , also called Perona-Malik diffusion , is a technique aiming at reducing image noise without removing significant parts of the image content , typically edges , lines or other details that are important for the interpretation of the image .
Let math M / math denote the manifold of smooth images , then the diffusion equations presented above can be interpreted as the gradient descent equations for the minimization of the energy functional math E : M \ rightarrow \ mathbb { R } / math defined by
Therefore , the gradient descent equations on the functional " E " are given by
Teribe is a town and corregimiento in the Changuinola District of Bocas del Toro Province of Panama .
Hunch was co-founded by Flickr co-founder Caterina Fake
Realization is also a subtask of natural language generation , which involves
For example , the following Java code causes the simplenlg system to print out the text " The women do not smoke .
Ordering points to identify the clustering structure ( OPTICS ) is an algorithm for finding density-based Cluster analysis in spatial data .
The R package " dbscan " includes a C + + implementation of OPTICS ( with both traditional dbscan-like and & xi ; cluster extraction ) using a k-d tree for index acceleration for Euclidean distance only .
) .This is done by applying optical character recognition ( OCR ) technology to an image to extract any text contained in the image , and then have this text translated into a language of their choice , and the applying Digital image processing on the original image to get the translated image with a new language .
Image traslation is related to machine translation .
VisualAp is cross-platform as it is a 100 % Java application .
This application is able to perform audio processing , image processing , text and other process-driven emulation .
The general approach is to use a special distance function together with a regular cluster analysis .
Watson is a question answering computer system capable of answering questions posed in natural language ,
In February 2013 , IBM announced that Watson software system 's first commercial application would be for utilization management decisions in lung cancer treatment at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center , New York City , in conjunction with WellPoint ( now Anthem ) .
Watson was created as a question answering ( QA ) computing system that IBM built to apply advanced natural language processing , information retrieval , knowledge representation , automated reasoning , and machine learning technologies to the field of open domain question answering .
It is no longer purely a question answering ( QA ) computing system designed from Q & A pairs but can now ' see ' , ' hear ' , ' read ' , ' talk ' , ' taste ' , ' interpret ' , ' learn ' and ' recommend ' .
The system was written in various languages , including Java , C + + , and Prolog , and runs on the SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 11 operating system using the Apache Hadoop framework to provide distributed computing .
Watson also used databases , taxonomies and ontologies including DBPedia , WordNet and Yago .
He soon discovered the cause of this evening hiatus : Ken Jennings , who was then in the middle of his successful 74-game run on " Jeopardy ! " .
Although the system is primarily an IBM effort , Watson 's development involved faculty and graduate students from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute , Carnegie Mellon University , University of Massachusetts Amherst , the University of Southern California ' s Information Sciences Institute , the University of Texas at Austin , the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , and the University of Trento ,
In 2008 , IBM representatives communicated with " Jeopardy ! " executive producer Harry Friedman about the possibility of having Watson compete against Ken Jennings and Brad Rutter , two of the most successful contestants on the show , and the program 's producers agreed .
Philosopher John Searle argues that Watson - despite impressive capabilities - cannot actually think .
In February 2017 , Rare Carat , a New York City -based startup and e-commerce platform for buying diamonds and diamond rings , introduced an IBM Watson-powered artificial intelligence chatbot called " Rocky " to assist novice diamond buyers through the daunting process of purchasing a diamond .
IBM announced a partnership with Cleveland Clinic in October 2012 .
In artificial intelligence , Collins is recognized for work on intelligent tutoring systems and plausible reasoning .
The American Hospital Association endorsed Vecna 's self-service Patient Kiosk .
The quality of Microsoft Translator 's machine translation outputs are evaluated using a method called the BLEU score .
All translation pairs are powered by the Microsoft Translator , a statistical machine translation platform and web service , developed by Microsoft Research , as its backend translation software .
Cyberdyne was founded on June 24 , 2004 , by Yoshiyuki Sankai , a professor at the University of Tsukuba .
In 2017 March , Abdul Latif Jameel of Saudi Arabia signed a memorandum of understanding ( MoU ) with Cyberdyne Inc. in order to assist the victims of traumatic spinal injuries in Saudi Arabia .
The popular K-means clustering algorithm minimizes the sum of squared error s criterion :
IFN construction is quite similar to Decision tree learning construction .
Aleksandr Aleksandrovich Stolyarenko ( ; born 18 January 1991 ) is a Russia n professional football er .
The data spacing used in the analysis , Δ " n " may be chosen either by calculating the true experimental data inter-point spacing , or by the use of a complete spatial randomness assumption , depending upon the degree of Cluster analysis in the observed data .
Furthermore , research has extended its range to related topics such as the choice of " Knowledge Representation ( KR ) Frameworks " .
For the " linguistic realization " part of REG the overlap between strings has been measured using metrics like BLEU K Papineni , S Roukos , T Ward , W Zhu ( 2002 ) .
" Proceedings of the 40th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics ( ACL ) " , pages 311-318 , Philadelphia , PA. or NIST .G Doddington ( 2002 ) .
The earliest activities in the documentation and description of language have been attributed to the 6th-century-BC India n grammarian Pāṇini
For research that relies on corpus linguistics and computational linguistics , written language is often much more convenient for processing large amounts of linguistic data .
The formal study of language began in India with Pāṇini , the 6th century BC grammarian who formulated 3,959 rules of Sanskrit morphology .
Structural analysis was improved by Leonard Bloomfield , Louis Hjelmslev ; and Zellig Harris who also developed methods of discourse analysis .
Linguistic research is commonly applied to areas such as language education , lexicography , translation , language planning , which involves governmental policy implementation related to language use , and natural language processing .
Speech synthesis and speech recognition use phonetic and phonemic knowledge to provide voice interface s to computers .
Applications of computational linguistics in machine translation , computer-assisted translation , and natural language processing are areas of applied linguistics that have come to the forefront .
Nonetheless , semiotic disciplines closely related to linguistics are literary studies , discourse analysis , text linguistics , and philosophy of language .
Computational linguistics is concerned with the statistical or rule-based modeling of natural language from a computational perspective .
Translators are also employed to work within computational linguistics setups like Google Translate , which is an automated program to translate words and phrases between any two or more given languages .
Computational linguistics is the study of linguistic issues in a way that is " computationally responsible , " i.e. , taking careful note of computational consideration of algorithmic specification and computational complexity , so that the linguistic theories devised can be shown to exhibit certain desirable computational properties and their implementations .
Hans Uszkoreit is a German computational linguistics .
Hans Uszkoreit studied Linguistics and Computer Science at the Technical University of Berlin and the University of Texas at Austin .
While he was studying in Austin , he also worked as a research associate in a large machine translation project at the Linguistics Research Center .
Nowadays , he is teaching as a professor of Computational Linguistics at Saarland University .
Worldwide music pop star Justin Bieber was invited by TOSY to come and promote for the robot .
Jan : Dancer / choreographer Derek Hough , three-times winner of Dancing with the Stars , attended this CES Trade Fair to promote for the mRobo 2.0 .
At the moment , SketRobo 's drawing ability is still limited ; however , in the future , TOSY will equip the robot with facial recognition system and motion detection so as the robot can sketch the faces of real people .
Today nearly all international industrial robot suppliers and 12 national robots associations are active members of IFR , including the biggest robot using countries like US ( RIA ) , Japan ( Japan Robot Association ) , Taiwan ( TAIROA ) , Germany ( VDMA ) , Italy ( SIRI ) or Spain ( AERATP ) .
67 teams competed at the event held at the Delft University of Technology .
The competition theme was Food Factor , on the topic of food safety .
The Open European Championship 2013 took place in Paderborn , Germany , from May 7 to May 10 , 2013 .
The Open European Championship 2014 will take place in Pamplona , Spain , from May 28 to May 31 , 2014 .
The Open European Championship 2016 took place in Tenerife , Spain , from May 4 to May 7 , 2016 .
The event was organized by Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and Wright State University .
The competition theme is Food Factor .
Maximum likelihood provides reasonably precise estimates in finite samples .
Uniform convergence in probability has applications to statistics as well as machine learning as part of statistical learning theory .
In statistics , the rational quadratic covariance function is used in spatial statistics , geostatistics , machine learning , image analysis , and other fields where multivariate statistical analysis is conducted on metric space s .
The technology includes a set of hardware originally developed by PrimeSense , incorporating RGB cameras , infrared projectors and detectors that mapped depth through either structured light or time of flight calculations , and a microphone array , along with software and artificial intelligence from Microsoft to allow the device to perform real-time gesture recognition , speech recognition and body skeletal detection for up to four people , among other capabilities .
Kudo Tsunoda and Darren Bennett joined Microsoft in 2008 , and began working with Kipman on a new approach to depth-sensing aided by machine learning to improve skeletal tracking .
Kinect was first announced to the public as " Project Natal " on June 1 , 2009 , during Microsoft 's press briefing at E3 2009 ; film director Steven Spielberg had joined Microsoft 's Don Mattrick to introduce the technology and its potential .
During the conference , Microsoft revealed the rebranding of Project Natal as " Kinect , " which Xbox Live director Stephen Toulouse explained was a portmanteau of the words " kinetic " and " connection , " key aspects of the Kinect initiative .
The party was hosted by Ashley Tisdale and was attended by soccer star David Beckham and his three sons , Cruz , Brooklyn , and Romeo .
Guests were treated to sessions with " Dance Central " and " Kinect Adventures " , followed by Tisdale having a Kinect voice chat with Nick Cannon .
The use of cloud computing to offload some of the computational work from Kinect , as well as more powerful features enable by Azure such as artificial intelligence would improve the accuracy of the depth-sensing and reduce the power demand and would lead to more compact units , Microsoft had envisioned .
The hardware included a range chipset technology by Israel i developer PrimeSense , which developed a system consisting of an infrared projector and camera and a special microchip that generates a grid from which the location of a nearby object in 3 dimensions can be ascertained .
On May 7 , 2018 , Microsoft announced a new iteration of Kinect technology designed primarily for enterprise software and artificial intelligence usage .
Alexandre Alahi from École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne presented a video surveillance system that combines multiple Kinect devices to track groups of people even in complete darkness .
The theory was initially proposed in the Haskins Laboratories in the 1950s by Alvin Liberman and Franklin S. Cooper , and developed further by Donald Shankweiler , Michael Studdert-Kennedy , Ignatius Mattingly , Carol Fowler and Douglas Whalen .
A leading method of analysis uses mathematical cluster analysis of the degree of similarity of genetic data between individuals and groups in order to infer population structures and assign individuals to hypothesized ancestral groups .
A similar analysis can be done using principal component analysis , and several recent studies deploy both methods .
Cluster analysis divides a dataset into any prespecified number of clusters .
After a period as a full-time writer and professor at Wells College , he took up a science communication post at the University of Otago in 2014 .
His " Scientific American " blog , " Bering in Mind , " an affiliate of the American Association for the Advancement of Science .
In 1909 , the company opened a new manufacturing site in Faverges , Haute-Savoie , France .
" In 1982 the company diversified again , this time into automation and robotics .
The IEEE Robotics and Automation Award is a Technical Field Award of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers ( IEEE ) that was established by the IEEE Board of Directors in 2002 .
Per Aage Brandt founded a Center for Semiotics in 1995 at Aarhus University and subsequently a Master Education in Cognitive Semiotics , to investigate the connections between semiotics and cognitive science ( with a strong focus on cognitive linguistics ) , and he has had several followers along this line such as Line Brandt ( Center for Semiotics at Aarhus University ) , and Todd Oakley ( Case Western Reserve University ) .
In speaker diarisation one of the most popular methods is to use a Gaussian mixture model to model each of the speakers , and assign the corresponding frames for each speaker with the help of a Hidden Markov Model .
Stereo vision is highly important in fields such as robotics , to extract information about the relative position of 3D objects in the vicinity of autonomous systems .
Other applications for robotics include object recognition , Sumi , Yasushi , et al .
Also methods exist based on neural network s .
By converting paper documents into digital format through scanning , organizations convert paper into image formats such as TIF , JPG , and PDF , and also extract valuable index information or business data from the document using Optical character recognition technology .
Digital signal processing allows the inexpensive construction of a wide variety of filters .
A computer program running on a CPU or a specialized DSP ( or less often running on a hardware implementation of the algorithm ) calculates an output number stream .
The filters were developed by Professor Ted Paige and others .
He obtained the Diplôme d 'Ingénieur from École Polytechnique in 1987 , a Magistère de Mathématiques Fondamentales et Appliquées et d 'Informatique from École Normale Supérieure in 1988 and a PhD from Université Paris-Sud in 1991 .
In 1996 , he joined AT & T Labs and worked primarily on the DjVu image compression technology , He developed the open source software LaSVM for fast large-scale support vector machine , and stochastic gradient descent software for training linear SVM and Conditional Random Fields .
He was program chair of the 2013 Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems and the 2009 International Conference on Machine Learning .
He is an associate editor of the IEEE ' s " Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence " , the IAPR 's " Pattern Recognition Letters " and the independently published " Journal of Machine Learning Research " .
In 2007 , he was received one of the first Blavatnik Awards for Young Scientists from the Blavatnik Family Foundation and the New York Academy of Sciences .
The Institute of Robotics was part of the ETH Zurich in Switzerland .
Reverse image search is a content-based image retrieval ( CBIR ) query technique that involves providing the CBIR system with a sample image that it will then base its search upon ; in terms of information retrieval , the sample image is what formulates a search query .
It developed the vision encoder network based on the TensorFlow " inception-v3 " , with speed of convergence and generalization for production usage .
A recurrent neural network is used for multi-class classification , and fashion-product region-of interest detection is based on " Faster R-CNN " .
Arista-DS only performs duplicate search algorithms such as principal component analysis on global image features to lower computational and memory costs .
Their first product released was the humanoid robot PINO in 2001 .
Google is working on automobile technology , autonomous car and even perhaps a driverless taxi service .
The Overhead Imagery Research Data Set ( OIRDS ) is a collection of an open-source , annotated , overhead images that computer vision researchers can use to aid in the development of algorithms .
Additionally , recent trends in computer vision include image context for many detection and classification problems .
He is well known for his work on optical character recognition and computer vision using convolutional neural network s ( CNN ) , and is a founding father of convolutional nets .
LeCun - together with Geoffrey Hinton and Yoshua Bengio - are referred to by some as the " Godfathers of AI " and " Godfathers of Deep Learning .
He received a Diplôme d 'Ingénieur from the ESIEE Paris in 1983 , and a PhD in Computer Science from Pierre and Marie Curie University in 1987 during which he proposed an early form of the back-propagation learning algorithm for neural networks.Y. LeCun : Une procédure d 'apprentissage pour réseau a seuil asymmetrique ( a Learning Scheme for Asymmetric Threshold Networks ) , Proceedings of Cognitiva 85 , 599-604 , Paris , France , 1985 .
He was a postdoctoral research associate in Geoffrey Hinton ' s lab at the University of Toronto from 1987 to 1988 .
He is also a professor at the New York University Tandon School of Engineering .
In 2013 , he and Yoshua Bengio co-founded the International Conference on Learning Representations , which adopted a post-publication open review process he previously advocated on his website .
In 2016 , he was the visiting professor of computer science on the " Chaire Annuelle Informatique et Sciences Numériques " at Collège de France in Paris .
LeCun is a member of the US National Academy of Engineering , the recipient of the 2014 IEEE Neural Network Pioneer Award and the 2015 PAMI Distinguished Researcher Award .
In 2016 , he was awarded Doctor Honoris Causa by the Instituto Politécnico Nacional in Mexico City .
In 2017 , LeCun declined an invitation to lecture at the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology in Saudi Arabia because he believed he would be considered a terrorist in the country in view of his atheism .
In March 2019 , LeCun won the Turing award , sharing it with Yoshua Bengio and Geoffrey Hinton .
Therefore , a nonuniform sampling scheme could be more convenient and useful in many digital signal processing applications .
The ambitious project was announced at a 1965 meeting of the Philological Society by its originator , Michael Samuels .
In 1965 he became the founding chair of the Department of Psychology at the University of California at San Diego and the founding Director of the Center for Human Information Processing ( CHIP ) the home of scientists such as Geoffrey Hinton , Donald A. Norman and David E. Rumelhart .
In 2009 , he was awarded an honorary doctorate from the University of Vienna .
He was a Fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences , received the William James Award from the American Psychological Association ( APA ) , a Guggenheim Fellowship , and Fellowship status in the American Academy of Arts and Sciences , the Society of Experimental Psychologists , and the Cognitive Science Society .
Kunihiko Fukushima ( Japanese : 福島 邦彦 ) is a Japan ese Computer science , most noted for his work on artificial neural networks and deep learning .
the original deep convolutional neural network ( CNN ) architecture .
Time delay neural network ( TDNN ) Alexander Waibel , Tashiyuki Hanazawa , Geoffrey Hinton , Kiyohito Shikano , Kevin J. Lang , " architecture whose purpose is to 1 ) classify patterns with shift-invariance , and 2 ) model context at each layer of the network .
The TDNN was first proposed to classify phonemes in speech signals for automatic speech recognition , where the automatic determination of precise segments or feature boundaries is difficult or impossible .
TDNNs have been used effectively in compact and high-performance handwriting recognition systems .
Two-dimensional TDNNs were later applied to other image-recognition tasks under the name of " Convolutional neural network , " where shift-invariant training is applied to the x / y axes of an image .
CoBoosting accomplishes this feat by borrowing concepts from AdaBoost .
CoBoosting builds on the AdaBoost algorithm , which gives CoBoosting its generalization ability since AdaBoost can be used in conjunction with many other learning algorithms .
( See AdaBoost Wikipedia page for notation ) .
The algorithm trains two classifiers in the same fashion as AdaBoost that agree on the labeled training sets correct labels and maximizes the agreement between the two classifiers on the unlabeled training set .
In signal processing , sub-band coding ( SBC ) is any form of transform coding that breaks a signal into a number of different frequency band s , typically by using a fast Fourier transform , and encodes each one independently .
Eckhard Bick ( born 16 July 1958 ) is a Germany born Esperantist who studied medicine in Bonn but now works as a researcher in computational linguistics .
Since his marriage to a Danish woman he and his family live in Denmark .
Bick obtained degrees in English ( 1983 ) , Medicine ( 1984 ) and Pedagogics ( 1985 ) from Bonn University and an M.A. in North Germanic languages and Portuguese from the Institute for Linguistics at Aarhus University ( 1994-99 ) .
The thesis analyzes Portuguese lexical morphology , morphosyntactics , syntax , semantics and semantic parsing , as well as computer-mediated learning and translation .
Since 1996 Bick has led the Visual Interactive Syntax Learning project at the Institute for Language and Communication at the University of Southern Denmark , where he is engaged in the design and programming of grammatical tools for the Internet .
FAMOS offers expansion modules for special operations such as electronic filters , for spectral analysis and for synchronized display of data and video sequences and for the Association for Standardisation of Automation and Measuring Systems .
Rank-based ( non-parametric ) features have become popular in the field of image processing for their robustness in detecting outliers and invariance to monotonic transformations such as brightness , contrast changes and gamma correction .
Matlab --
During the period 1994-96 , Caesar Offshore Program was defined as a project of Petrotechnical Open Software Corporation ( POSC ) ( now Energistics ) , and changed its name to the POSC Caesar Project .
Albeit the name of POSC Caesar Association still hints to its past as a project within the Petrotechnical Open Software Corporation ( POSC ) ( now Energistics
In consultation with the other EPISTLE members and the International Organization for Standardization , it was decided in 2003 ( some say already in 1997 ) that for modeling-technical reasons it was better to discontinue the development of ISO 10303
Moreover , an already working script for an experiment can be swiftly converted to display a graphical user interface for entering the experimental parameters by adding just a few extra lines and converting it via a Perl script ( included in the package ) , thus allowing it to be used immediately also by users not acquainted at all with the EDL language .
It was founded in the early 90s as a research laboratory of University of Parma , Dipartimento di Ingegneria dell 'Informazione .
VisLab , directed by Alberto Broggi , undertakes basic and applied research , including the perception of the surrounding environment in vehicular applications using cameras and fusion with other sensors .
The University of Parma owned a share of 5 % .In 2015 , VisLab was acquired by Silicon Valley company .
In the early years , the research group formed by Broggi , Massimo Bertozzi and Alessandra Fascioli designed , realized , and tested an autonomous car known as ARGO .
VisLab is located in the University of Parma main campus , south of Parma , Italy .
As such , informatics encompasses many academic disciplines , including computer science , information systems , information technology and statistics .
Taking " information " as the central focus of study distinguishes " informatics " from " computer science .
Informatics encompasses the study of systems that knowledge representation , process , and communicate information .
However , the theory of computation in the specific discipline of theoretical computer science , which evolved from Alan Turing , studies the notion of a complex system regardless of whether or not information actually exists .
A broad interpretation of " informatics " , as " the study of the structure , algorithms , behaviour , and interactions of natural and artificial computational systems , " was introduced by the University of Edinburgh in 1994 when it formed the grouping that is now its University of Edinburgh School of Informatics .
This meaning is now ( 2006 ) increasingly used in the United Kingdom .For example , at
Academic research in the informatics area can be found in a number of disciplines such as computer science , information technology , Information and Computer Science , information system s , business information management and health informatics .
Alberto Broggi is General Manager at VisLab srl ( spinoff of the University of Parma acquired by Silicon-Valley company .
Ambarella Inc on June 2015 ) Italy .
On July 12 , 2013 , VisLab tested the BRAiVE vehicle in downtown Parma , negotiating two-way narrow rural roads , pedestrian crossings , traffic lights , artificial bumps , pedestrian areas , and tight roundabouts .
Honeybee Robotics Spacecraft Mechanisms Corporation is a small spacecraft technology and robotics company
After a series of research positions - common for women in the 1950-1960s - at Harvard , the University of Toronto , and at UCSD , she became an associate professor at UCSD in 1973 and professor in 1977 ; she retired as a research professor in 2000 .
In 2006 the book received the " Eleanor Maccoby Outstanding Book Award " from the Division of Developmental Psychology , APA , and in 2007 the " Best Authored Book Award " from the Cognitive Development Society .
In 2007 she was also given the American Psychological Association ' s " Distinguished Scientific Contribution Award .
Mandler is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and of the Society of Experimental Psychologists .
, pp. 236-253 ScanIP was used to generate STL files of a man 's kidney to help visualize options before a minor procedure at Southampton General Hospital .
The " hero " is privately owned by TV and film producer Kevin Burns , who commissioned a replica in the early 1990s for touring and conventions .
The Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition ( CVPR ) is an annual conference on computer vision and pattern recognition , which is regarded as one of the most important conferences in its field .
CVPR was first held in Washington DC in 1983 by Takeo Kanade and Dana H. Ballard ( previously the conference was named Pattern Recognition and Image Processing ) .papers .
The Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence ( PAMI ) Young Researcher Award is an award given by the Technical Committee on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence ( TCPAMI ) of the IEEE Computer Society to a researcher within 7 years of completing their Ph.D. for outstanding early career research contributions .
In 2000 , Robotics Design Inc. released the first AMI-100 which was sold to the École de technologie supérieure university for research purposes .
The AMI-100 is an industrial manipulator consisting of prismatic joint s mounted on a fixed base , and a series of identical modules linked in an articulated SCARA configuration , which forms a snake-arm .
Past work has applied this idea to categorization , language , motor control , sequence learning , reinforcement learning and theory of mind .
AppTek 's primary focus is on automatic speech recognition ( ASR ) , machine translation ( MT ) , Natural language processing , machine learning and artificial intelligence .
AppTek acquired AIXPLAIN in 2004 , thereby adding a Statistical machine translation engine .
In August 2011 , they shot Britney Spears ' s Femme Fatale Tour in Toronto , which was released in DVD / Blu-ray 2D in November .
This formula defines a special form of One Dependence Estimator ( ODE ) , a variant of the naive Bayes classifier that makes the above independence assumption that is weaker ( and hence potentially less harmful ) than the naive Bayes ' independence assumption .
It supports incremental learning whereby the classifier can be updated efficiently with information from new examples as they become available .
See the brief discussion in Stochastic gradient descent .
In May 2010 , Honda representatives demonstrated the U3-X at the Honda Collection Hall in Motegi , Tochigi , Japan .
Other RTNs with output could simply mark text segments containing relevant information ( see information extraction ) .
For example , statistical systems in the United Nations commonly use the M-49 classification and pigmentationStandard Country or Area Codes for Statistical Use etc .
DOK-ING d.o.o is a Croatia n company which manufactures electric vehicle s , unmanned multi-purpose vehicles and Robotics systems. established in 1992 .
Robotics is a branch of mechanical engineering , electrical engineering and computer science that deals with the design , construction , operation , and application of robots , as well as computer systems for their control , sensory feedback , and information processing .
Aggregation is a subtask of natural language generation , which involves merging syntactic constituents ( such as sentences and phrases ) together .
Rattle GUI is a free and open source software ( GNU GPL v2 ) package providing a graphical user interface ( GUI ) for data mining using the R statistical programming language .
In the 1960s Bernard Widrow and Ted Hoff developed ADALINE ( Adaptive Linear Neuron ) which used electrochemical cells called memistor s ( memory resistors ) to emulate synapses of an artificial neuron .
Greg Snider of HP Labs describes a system of cortical computing with memristive nanodevices .
Developed primarily by Stan Franklin and colleagues at the University of Memphis , the LIDA architecture is empirically grounded in cognitive science and cognitive neuroscience .
OCR-B is a monospace font developed in 1968 by Adrian Frutiger for Monotype by following the Ecma International standard .
Its function was to facilitate the optical character recognition operations by specific electronic devices , originally for financial and bank -oriented uses .
50 It follows the International Organization for Standardization 1073-2 : 1976 ( E ) standard , refined in 1979 ( " letterpress " design , size I ) .
In June 1961 , the European Computer Manufacturers Association ( ECMA ) started standardization activities related to Optical Character Recognition .
Hot Shot ! is the robotics competition event in the 2009-2010 FIRST Tech Challenge .
Traditional methods of data analysis have long been used to detect fraud .
These methods exist in the areas of Knowledge Discovery in Databases ( KDD ) , Data Mining , Machine Learning and Statistics .
Techniques used for fraud detection fall into two primary classes : statistical techniques and artificial intelligence .
Cox et al. combines human pattern recognition skills with automated data algorithms .
The update step is then formalized as a quadratic programming math .
Robert E. Kraut ( born August 30 , 1946 ) is an United States social psychologist who studies human-computer interaction , online communities , internet use , group coordination , computers in organizations , and the role of visual elements in interpersonal communication .
He is a Herbert Simon Professor of Human-computer Interaction at the Human-Computer Interaction Institute at Carnegie Mellon University .
He is board member of the Computer Science and Telecommunications Board of the US National Academy of Sciences and a fellow of the American Psychological Society and of the Association for Computing Machinery ( 2011 ) .
His recent classes include the following : Communication in Groups and Organizations , Computer Supported Cooperative Work : Designing Online Communities , Social Science Perspectives in Human-computer interaction , HCI Process and Theory , and HCI Undergraduate Project Course .
Dr. Kraut has co-authored a number of books relating to the intersection of technology and the social sciences ( often under the Human-Computer Interaction umbrella throughout his career .
The 1999 Central Asian Games also known as the 3rd Central Asian Games were held in Bishkek , Kyrgyzstan .
In 2017 , Brad Myers received the Association for Computing Machinery ' s SIGCHI Lifetime Achievement Award in Research , for outstanding fundamental and influential research contributions to the study of human-computer interaction .
The Development of KNIME was started January 2004 by a team of software engineers at University of Konstanz as a proprietary product .
KNIME is implemented in Java but also allows for wrappers calling other code in addition to providing nodes that allow to run Java , Python , R , Ruby and other code fragments .
Split Up operates as a hybrid system , combining rule - based reasoning with neural network theory.Stranieri , A. and Zeleznikow , J. , Split _ Up : The use of an argument based knowledge representation to meet expectations of different users for discretionary decision making , p.1
The neural network used by Split _ up is said to generalise well if the output of the network is correct ( or nearly correct ) for examples not seen during training , which classifies it as an Artificial intelligence .
Here , a neural network ( or rules ) , produce a conclusion from the data of an argument and the data , warrant and backing are reproduced to generate an explanation .
MAREC is intended as raw material for research in areas such as information retrieval , natural language processing or machine translation , which require large amounts of complex documents.Manning , C. D. and Schütze , H. ( 2002 ) Foundations of statistical natural language processing Cambridge , MA , Massachusetts Institute of Technology ( MIT ) .
Techniques used to achieve these goals generally fall into three categories : boolean retrieval , manual classification of legal text , and natural language processing of legal text .
Application of standard information retrieval techniques to legal text can be more difficult than application in other subjects .
The SOM toolbox contains a MATLAB implementation .
SHYSTER is a legal expert system developed at the Australian National University in Canberra in 1993 .
It was written as the doctoral dissertation of James Popple under the supervision of Robin Stanton , Roger Clarke , Peter Drahos , and Malcolm Newey .. further detailing its development and testing have also been published .
A further example of SHYSTER 's pragmatism is its simple knowledge representation structure .
To this end SHYSTER can be seen to adopt and expand upon nearest neighbor search methods used in pattern recognition .
Being a dictionary-based tool , with its own translation software , it can sometimes offer a more accurate translation than Google Translate and others , although the grammar will be incorrect .
Ranking is a central part of many information retrieval problems , such as document retrieval , collaborative filtering , sentiment analysis , and online advertising .
A number of existing Supervised learning machine learning algorithms can be readily used for this purpose .
Note : as most supervised learning algorithms can be applied to pointwise case , only those methods which are specifically designed with ranking in mind are shown above .
Several conferences , such as NIPS , Special Interest Group on Information Retrieval and International Conference on Machine Learning had workshops devoted to the learning-to-rank problem since mid-2000s ( decade ) .
| Overture Overture Services , Inc , and then Yahoo ) , which launched a gradient boosting -trained ranking function in April 2003.Jan O. Pedersen .
The promoter based genetic algorithm ( PBGA ) is a genetic algorithm for neuroevolution developed by F. Bellas and R.J. Duro in the Integrated Group for Engineering Research ( GII ) at the University of Coruña , in Spain .
The feature vector can now be processed using the Support vector machine , extreme learning machine s , or some other machine learning algorithm to classify images .
Such classifiers can be used for facial recognition system or texture analysis .
If the wavelength is short in comparison to the part then a lumped-element model as described above is no longer adequate and a distributed-element model must be used instead .
Versions of the harmonic telegraph were developed by Elisha Gray , Alexander Graham Bell , Ernest Mercadier ref group = n Ernest Mercadier article in French Wikipedia and others .
In this theory , filter design is viewed essentially as an impedance matching problem.Harrison , 1929 , p.2. More advanced filter theory was brought to bear on this problem by Edward Lawry Norton in 1929 at Bell Labs .
In image processing , histogram matching or histogram specification is the transformation of an image so that its histogram matches a specified histogram .
The optimal solution is calculated using dynamic programming .
The book also criticizes the term artificial intelligence .
Stibel also outlines arguments from Steven Pinker , Ray Kurzweil , Nova Spivack , John Brockman , Douglas Hofstadter , Nassim Taleb , and Marvin Minsky .
The edge-preserving filters can conveniently be formulated in a general context of graph-based signal processing , where the graph adjacency matrix is first determined using the differential structure of the image , then the graph Laplacian is formulated ( analogous to the anisotropic diffusion operator ) , and finally the approximate low-pass filter is constructed to amplify the eigenvectors of the graph Laplacian corresponding to its smallest eigenvalues .
A repetitive application of the filter may be useful to reduce the noise , leading to the idea of combining the filter with an iterative method , e.g. , the Chebyshev iteration and the conjugate gradient method are proposed in for graph-based image denoising .
The ISODATA algorithm is a modification of the k-means clustering algorithm ( overcomes the disadvantages of k-means ) .
ACROSS modifies the design of social robot ics , blocked in providing predefined services , going further by means of Artificial intelligence .
CNN 10 ,
Ng was born in London , United Kingdom in 1976 .
Growing up , he spent time in Hong Kong and Singapore and later graduated from Raffles Institution in Singapore in 1992 .
In 1997 , he earned his undergraduate degree with a triple major in computer science , statistics , and economics at the top of his class from Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania .
Between 1996-1998 he also conducted research on reinforcement learning , model selection , and feature selection at the AT & T Bell Labs .
In 2002 , he received his PhD from UC Berkeley under the supervision of Michael I. Jordan .
His thesis is titled " Shaping and policy search in reinforcement learning " and is well cited to this day .
In 2014 , he married Carol E. Reiley and in February 2019 they had their first child , Nova .
He served as the Director of the Stanford Artificial Intelligence Lab ( SAIL ) , where he taught students and undertook research related to data mining , big data , and machine learning .
Since joining Stanford in 2002 , he has advised dozens of Ph.D and M.Sc students , including Adam Coates , Pieter Abbeel , Ian Goodfellow , Ashutosh Saxena , Honglak Lee , Ilya Sutskever , Morgan Quigley , Richard Socher , Zico Kolter , Quoc Le , Siddharth Batra and many other students .
In 2012 , along with Stanford computer scientist Daphne Koller he co-founded and was CEO of Coursera , a website that offers free online courses to everyone .
From 2011 to 2012 , he worked at Google , where he founded and directed the Google Brain Deep Learning Project with Jeff Dean and Greg Corrado .
Ng researches primarily in machine learning , deep learning , machine perception , computer vision , and natural language processing ; and is one of the world 's most famous and influential computer scientists .
In 2011 , Ng founded the Google Brain project at Google , which developed large scale artificial neural network s using Google ' s distributed computer infrastructure .
He together with David M. Blei and Michael I. Jordan , coauthored the influential paper that introduced Latent Dirichlet allocation .David M. Blei , Andrew Y. Ng , Michael I. Jordan .
Within Stanford , they include Daphne Koller with her " blended learning experiences " and co-designing a peer-grading system , John Mitchell ( Courseware , a Learning Management System ) , Dan Boneh ( using machine learning to sync videos , later teaching cryptography on Coursera ) , Bernd Girod ( ClassX ) , and others .
Outside Stanford both Ng and Thrun credit Sal Khan of Khan Academy as a huge source of inspiration .
It offered a similar experience to MIT OpenCourseWare except it aimed at providing a more " complete course " experience , equipped with lectures , course materials , problems and solutions , etc .
He is also a member of the board of directors for drive.ai , which uses AI for self-driving car s .
Ng is also the author or co-author of over 300 published papers in machine learning , robotics , and related fields .
! -- list all the journals he has published in --His work in computer vision and deep learning has been frequently featured in press releases and reviews .
He has also written for HuffPost , Slate , Apple News , and Quora Sessions ' Twitter .
He has stated that he enjoyed Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee " The Second Machine Age " which discusses issues such as AI displacement of jobs .
Gutkind spent six years as a " fly on the wall " researcher at the Robotics Institute at Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh .
From June 15 to July 31 of 1997 , Carnegie Mellon University deployed the robotic Nomad rover to traverse the Atacama Desert of Northern Chile .
The system also recognized printed text and uses optical character recognition ( OCR ) to produce a text snippet , and in some cases even translate the snippet into another language .
Data Applied implements a collection of visualization tools and algorithms for data analysis and data mining .
The product supports several types of analytical tasks , including visual reporting , tree map s , time series forecasting , correlation analysis , outlier detection , decision trees , association rules , Cluster analysis , and self-organizing map s .
For clustering , k-means clustering is a widely used heuristic but alternate algorithms have also been developed such as k-medoids , CURE and the popular
The principal curvature-based region detector , also called PCBR is a feature detector used in the fields of computer vision and image analysis .
A common algorithm for computing the color mapping when the pixel correspondence is given is building the joint-histogram ( see also co-occurrence matrix ) of the two images and finding the mapping by using dynamic programming based on the joint-histogram values .
Color calibration is an important pre-processing task in computer vision applications .
Examples of such applications are : Image differencing , registration , object recognition , multi-camera Video tracking , co-segmentation and stereo reconstruction .
TV Genius is a United Kingdom -based software company that specialize in TV search engines , TV recommendation engine s , and EPG development .
In the field of gesture recognition and image processing , finger tracking is a high-resolution technique developed in 1969 that is employed to know the consecutive position of the fingers of the user and hence represent objects in 3D .
This system was born based on the human-computer interaction problem .
In this system we use inertial and optical motion capture systems .
Lexical substitution is strictly related to word sense disambiguation ( WSD ) , in that both aim to determine the meaning of a word .
A variety of neural network s ( computer system modeled after a human brain ) are formed together as a result of the vectors and networks that are related together .
Chitrankan is an Optical character recognition ( Optical Character Recognition ) system for Hindi and other Indian Languages .
It is developed by Indian Statistical Institute Indian Statistical Institute , Kolkata and the technology was transferred to C-DAC , Pune .
The electronic matter can be edited using any word processor .
Sanskrit OCR is developed by a Sanskrit scholar from Germany - " Dr. Oliver Hellwig " of Department for Languages and Cultures of Southern Asia , Freie Universität Berlin .
It is a variant of the biconjugate gradient method ( BiCG ) and has faster and smoother convergence than the original BiCG as well as other variants such as the conjugate gradient squared method ( CGS ) .
In artificial intelligence research , the situated approach builds agents that are designed to behave effectively successfully in their environment .
During the late 1980s , the approach now known as Nouvelle AI ( " Nouvelle " means new in French ) was pioneered at the MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory by Rodney Brooks .
As opposed to classical or traditional artificial intelligence , Nouvelle AI purposely avoided the traditional goal of modeling human-level performance , but rather tries to create systems with intelligence at the level of insects , closer to real-world robots .
It was made famous by Rodney Brooks : his subsumption architecture was one of the earliest attempts to describe a mechanism for developing BBAI .
It is extremely popular in robotics and to a lesser extent to implement intelligent virtual agents because it allows the successful creation of real-time dynamic systems that can run in complex environments .
In fact , this approach stems out from early insights of Alan Turing , describing the need to build machines equipped with sense organs to learn directly from the real-world instead of focusing on abstract activities , such as playing chess .
In artificial intelligence and cognitive science , the term situated refers to an agent which is embedded in an environment .
However , learning is obviously key to realistic Artificial general intelligence , so this constraint has been relaxed , though not entirely abandoned .
In December 2010 via the Russia n spacecraft Soyuz on the mission Soyuz TMA-20 , a European Space Agency astronaut brought the Fujifilm FinePix REAL 3D W1 aboard the International Space Station .
In the European Union member states legislation was introduced in 1998 which had a major effect on UK Pharmacy operations .
More recently , traditional CAD simulation is seen to be transformed to CAutoD by biologically-inspired machine learning ,
One approach to virtual engineering and automated design is evolutionary computation such as evolutionary algorithm s .
Margaret Masterman ( 4 May 1910 & ndash ; 1 April 1986 ) was a United Kingdom linguist and philosopher , most known for her pioneering work in the field of computational linguistics and especially machine translation .
In 1955 she founded and directed the Cambridge Language Research Unit ( CLRU ) , which grew from an informal discussion group to a major research centre in computational linguistics in its time .
One measure of its impact , and from a staff that never exceeded ten people , was that of the Annual Lifetime Achievement Awards from the Association for Computational Linguistics in the US , three have been awarded to CLRU alumni : Martin Kay , Karen Spärck Jones and Yorick Wilks .
She was the first AI researcher to be influenced by Halliday , long before Terry Winograd .
She was a great-niece of Lucy Cavendish after whom the college is named .
He received a B.S. in mathematics in 1994 and a Ph.D. in computer science in 2002 , both from Stanford University .
Agrawala is the recipient of multiple awards , including an Okawa Foundation Research Grant in 2006 , a Sloan Fellowship and NSF CAREER Award in 2007 , a SIGGRAPH Significant New Researcher Award in 2008 , and a MacArthur Foundation Fellowship in 2009 .
In machine learning , the weighted majority algorithm ( WMA ) is a meta-learning algorithm which " predicts from expert advice .
To emulate the human mind 's cognitive powers , Definiens used patented image segmentation and classification processes , and developed a method to render knowledge in a semantic network .
The central concept behind Definiens Tissue Studio is a user interface that facilitates machine learning from example digital histopathology images in order to derive an image analysis solution suitable for the measurement of biomarkers and / or histological features within pre-defined regions of interest on a cell-by-cell basis , and within sub-cellular compartments .
The knowledge acquisition bottleneck is perhaps the major impediment to solving the word sense disambiguation ( WSD ) problem .
Unsupervised learning methods rely on knowledge about word senses , which is barely formulated in dictionaries and lexical databases .
Supervised learning methods depend heavily on the existence of manually annotated examples for every word sense , a requisite that can be met only for a handful of words for testing purposes , as it is done in the Senseval exercises .
The most direct way of using the Web ( and other corpora ) to enhance WSD performance is the automatic acquisition of sense-tagged corpora , the fundamental resource to feed Supervised learning WSD algorithms .
Voreen was initiated at the Department of Computer Science at the University of Münster , Germany in 2004 and was first released on 11 April 2008 under the
It is an interdisciplinary field that encompasses the fields of computer science , linguistics and cognitive science .
The large amounts of funding poured into machine translation testifies to the perceived importance of the field , right from the beginning .
In the case of language , it was Noam Chomsky who refines the goal of linguistics as a quest for a formal description of language , Noam Chomsky , " Syntactic Structures " , London : Mouton , 1957. whilst Claude Shannon and Warren Weaver provided a mathematical theory that linked communication with information .. Cm.bell-labs.com ( 1998-05-18 ) .
For a start , it has given birth to a new discipline , known as natural language processing ( NLP ) , or computational linguistics ( CL ) .
Moreover , NLP fits in naturally with other branches of computer science , and in particular , with artificial intelligence ( AI ) .. LCT draws on and incorporates knowledge and research from all these fields .
Its speech recognition engine was provided by Nuance Communications , and Siri uses advanced machine learning technologies to function .
It received praise for its Speech recognition and contextual knowledge of user information , including calendar appointments , but was criticized for requiring stiff user commands and having a lack of flexibility .
The reports concerned Siri 's limited set of features , " bad " voice recognition , and undeveloped service integrations as causing trouble for Apple in the field of artificial intelligence and cloud-based services ; the basis for the complaints reportedly due to stifled development , as caused by Apple 's prioritization of user privacy and executive power struggles within the company .
Siri 's speech recognition engine was provided by Nuance Communications , a speech technology company .
The original American voice of Siri was provided in July 2005 by Susan Bennett , unaware that it would eventually be used for the voice assistant .
The original British male voice was provided by Jon Briggs , a former technology journalist .
The original Australian voice was provided by Karen Jacobsen , a voice-over artist known in Australia for her work as the " GPS girl " .
With iOS 11 , Apple auditioned hundreds of candidates to find a new female voices , then recorded hours of speech , including different personalities and expressions , and built a new Speech synthesis voice based on deep learning technology .
Writing for " The New York Times " , David Pogue also praised Siri 's natural language understanding and ability to understand context : blockquote " Siri thinks for a few seconds , displays a beautifully formatted response and speaks in a calm female voice .
Siri was criticized by pro-choice abortion organizations , including the American Civil Liberties Union ( ACLU ) and NARAL Pro-Choice America , after users found that Siri could not provide information about the location of birth control or abortion providers nearby , sometimes directing users to pro-life crisis pregnancy center s instead .
RCSA first started with partnerships with Motoman and Private Career Colleges in Canada .
In 2006 RCSA was invited to join the American Welding Society D16 committee to provide robotics and testing expertise in the development of America 's first robotic welding exam ( CRAW ) .
In 2009 the RCSA redesigned the American Welding Society CRAW course to fit the needs of a
VESA Stereo is a liquid crystal shutter glasses interface standard by the Video Electronics Standards Association ( VESA ) for stereoscopic 3D display s .
Neato Robotics is a robotics company located in Newark , California .
It is based on work done by scientists like British Behavioural scientist Nick Chater , Dutch computer scientist Paul Vitanyi , artificial intelligence researchers Jean-Louis Dessalles from France and Jürgen Schmidhuber from Germany .
It is found in the eastern United States and Canada ( Florida to Texas , north to at least Iowa and Ontario ) .
Models and algorithms based on the principle of competitive learning include vector quantization and self-organizing map s ( Kohonen maps ) .
In natural language understanding , naive semantics involves the use of a lexical theory which maps each word sense to a simple theory ( or set of assertions ) about the objects or events of reference .
PageRank was influenced by citation analysis , early developed by Eugene Garfield in the 1950s at the University of Pennsylvania , and by Hyper Search , developed by Massimo Marchiori at the University of Padua .
In machine learning , multiclass or multinomial classification is the problem of classifying instances into one of three or more classes .
( Classifying instances into one of two classes is called binary classification .
While some classification algorithms naturally permit the use of more than two classes , others are by nature Binary classification algorithms ; these can , however , be turned into multinomial classifiers by a variety of strategies .
Multiclass classification should not be confused with multi-label classification , where multiple labels are to be predicted for each instance .
One-vs.-restref group = noteIn multi-label classification , OvR is known as " binary relevance " and the prediction of multiple classes is considered a feature , not a problem .
Several algorithms have been developed based on neural networks , decision trees , k-nearest neighbors , naive Bayes , support vector machines and Extreme Learning Machines to address multi-class classification problems .
Naive Bayes is a successful classifier based upon the principle of maximum a posteriori ( MAP ) .
Decision tree learning is a powerful classification technique .
Two very commonly used loss functions are the mean squared error , mathL ( a ) = a ^ 2 / math , and the absolute loss , mathL ( a ) = | a | / math .
It combines the best properties of L2 Mean squared error and L1 absolute loss by being strongly convex when close to the target / minimum and less steep for extreme values .
Given a prediction mathf ( x ) / math ( a real-valued classifier score ) and a true binary classification class label mathy \ in \ { + 1 , -1 \ } / math , the modified Huber loss is defined as
The term math \ max ( 0 , 1 - y \ , f ( x ) ) / math is the hinge loss used by support vector machine s ; the quadratically smoothed hinge loss is a generalization of mathL / math .
It supports the XHTML markup language , Flash Lite 3.0 , video streaming and RSS feeds .
Encog is a machine learning framework available for Java and .Net .
However , its main strength lies in its neural network algorithms .
Mental operations have been investigated at a developmental level by Jean Piaget , and from a psychometric perspective by J. P. Guilford .
According to J. P. Guilford ' s Structure of Intellect ( SI ) theory , an individual 's performance on intelligence tests can be traced back to the underlying mental abilities or factors of intelligence .
ViBe is a background subtraction algorithm which has been presented at the IEEE ICASSP 2009 conference and was refined in later publications .
It has been developed by Oliver Barnich and Marc Van Droogenbroeck of the Montefiore Institute , University of Liège , Belgium .
Gradient boosting is a machine learning technique for regression and classification problems , which produces a prediction model in the form of an ensemble of weak prediction models , typically Decision tree learning s .
It is easiest to explain in the least-squares regression setting , where the goal is to " teach " a model mathF / math to predict values of the form math \ hat { y } = F ( x ) / math by minimizing the mean squared error math \ tfrac { 1 } { n } \ sum _ i ( \ hat { y } _ i - y _ i ) ^ 2 / math , where math i / math indexes over some training set of size math n / math of actual values of the output variable mathy / math :
So , gradient boosting is a gradient descent algorithm , and generalizing it entails " plugging in " a different loss and its gradient .
In many supervised learning problems one has an output variable , the goal is to find an approximation math \ hat { F } ( x ) / math to a function mathF ( x ) / math that minimizes the expected value of some specified loss function mathL ( y , F ( x ) ) / math :
It does so by starting with a model , consisting of a constant function mathF _ 0 ( x ) / math , and incrementally expands it in a Greedy algorithm fashion :
In the discrete case however , i.e. when the set math \ mathcal { H } / math is finite , we choose the candidate function may then be calculated with the aid of line search on the above equations .
Gradient boosting is typically used with Decision tree learning ( especially CART trees ) of a fixed size as base learners .
However , it comes at the price of increasing computational time both during training and Information retrieval : lower learning rate requires more iterations .
Gradient tree boosting implementations often also use regularization by limiting the minimum number of observations in trees ' terminal nodes ( this parameter is called coden.minobsinnode / code in the R codegbm / code package ) .
Another useful regularization techniques for gradient boosted Decision tree is to penalize model complexity of the learned model.Tianqi Chen .
A popular open-source implementation for R calls it a " Generalized Boosting Model , " however packages expanding this work use BRT .
The Automation Institute ( ) is an Argentine Research Institution located in San Juan Province ( Argentina ) dedicated to research advanced topics of Control Engineering , Robotics and Electronics .
The INAUT was created in 1973 under the umbrella of the National University of San Juan .
Nowadays , the following research programs are being conducted : Robotics , Manufacture , Process Control , Artificial Intelligence , Industrial Electronics , Sensors .
It is also a member of the International Federation of Robotics ( International Federation of Robotics ) .
Frederick J. Damerau ( December 25 , 1931 - January 27 , 2009 ) was a pioneer of research on natural language processing and data mining .
In signal processing , total variation denoising , also known as total variation regularization , is a process , most often used in digital image processing , that has applications in noise removal .
Due in part to much research in compressed sensing in the mid-2000s , there are many algorithms , such as the split- Bregman method , that solve variants of this problem .
The robot has the abilities of face detection and counting , object detection and position measurement , activity detection , speech recognition ( speech to text ) and speech generation ( text to speech ) resulting to achieve better voice user interface .
Least-squares support-vector machines ( LS-SVM ) are least-squares versions of support-vector machine s ( SVM ) , which are a set of related supervised learning methods that analyze data and recognize patterns , and which are used for classification and regression analysis .
In this version one finds the solution by solving a set of linear equation s instead of a convex quadratic programming ( QP ) problem for classical SVMs .
Given a training set math \ { x _ i , y _ i \ } _ { i = 1 } ^ N / math with input data math x _ i \ in \ mathbb { R } ^ n / math and corresponding binary class labels mathy _ i \ in \ { -1 , + 1 \ } / math , the SVM Vapnik , V. The nature of statistical learning theory .
Elimination of mathw / math and mathe / math will yield a linear system instead of a quadratic programming problem :
Neural Computation , 4 ( 5 ) : 720-736 , Sep. 1992. and MacKay has used it to the problem of regression , forward neural network and classification network .
MovieLens is a web-based recommender system and virtual community that recommends movies for its users to watch , based on their film preferences using collaborative filtering of members ' movie ratings and movie reviews .
The 2010 World Expo ' s theme was " better cities , better life " ; therefore issues related to sustainable mobility were central to the Expo and this challenge of reaching Shanghai with driverless vehicles provided a clear demonstration of future vehicles ; it is considered one of the main milestones in Robotics .
VisLab , thanks to a project partially funded by ERC -the European Research Council - showed that one day it will be possible to move goods between two continents with non-polluting vehicles powered by green energy and with virtually no human intervention .
The last demonstration was given exactly one year later , on Oct 28 , 2010 , in Shanghai , China , during a parade at the World Expo , organized by the European Pavilion .
In 1993-1994 , Knyazev held a visiting position at the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences of New York University , collaborating with Olof B. Widlund .
and named the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics Fellow Class of 2016 { { Citation
American Mathematical Society Fellow Class of 2019 .
and with Nikolai Sergeevich Bakhvalov ( ) ( Erdős number 3 via Leonid Kantorovich ) on numerical solution of elliptic partial differential equations with large jumps in the main coefficients .
Evolutionary multimodal optimization is a branch of evolutionary computation , which is closely related to machine learning .
Evolutionary algorithm s ( EAs ) due to their population based approach , provide a natural advantage over classical optimization techniques .
The field of Evolutionary algorithm s encompasses genetic algorithm s ( GAs ) , evolution strategy ( ES ) , differential evolution ( DE ) , particle swarm optimization ( PSO ) , and other methods .
Machine Translation ( MT ) systems are typically used by readers who do not need a thorough translation and want quick access to the foreign language .
The University of Edinburgh School of Informatics and the Machine Translation Group of the University of Edinburgh , created a research program , CAITRA , to analyze the benefits of different types of MTs and to explore the interaction between the machine and the user in order to develop new CAT tools .
The machine translation back-end is powered by the Statistical machine translation , Moses ( Koehn et al .
The Statistical machine translation is followed to generate the predictions for translation .
These predictions are provided in short phrases , according to the Statistical machine translation .
The class of the test point may be estimated through maximum likelihood .
The model 's performance compares favorably with standard backpropagation -based temporal learning mechanisms on the challenging 1-2-AX working memory task , and other benchmark working memory tasks .
PVLV provides reinforcement learning signals to train up the dynamic gating system in the basal ganglia .
ELKI ( for " Environment for DeveLoping KDD-Applications Supported by Index-Structures " ) is a data mining ( KDD , knowledge discovery in databases ) software framework developed for use in research and teaching .
It was originally at the database systems research unit of Professor Hans-Peter Kriegel at the Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich , Germany , and now continued at the Technical University of Dortmund , Germany .
The ELKI framework is written in Java and built around a modular architecture .
Most currently included algorithms belong to cluster analysis , outlier detection { { cite journal
This database core provides nearest neighbor search , range / radius search , and distance query functionality with index acceleration for a wide range of dissimilarity measures .
ELKI includes data structures such as object collections and heaps ( for , e.g. , nearest neighbor search ) using such optimizations .
Version 0.1 ( July 2008 ) contained several Algorithms from cluster analysis and anomaly detection , as well as some index structure s such as the R * -tree .
Version 0.5 ( April 2012 ) focuses on the evaluation of cluster analysis results , adding new visualizations and some new algorithms .
The Indian Underwater Robotics Society or IURS ( registered as Intelligent Unmanned Robotics Society ) is India ' s first and only non-profit research organisation NGO for the advancement of low-cost robotics and intelligent systems research in developing countries .
He was voiced and operated by Josh Robert Thompson and first appeared on " The Late Late Show " on April 5 , 2010 .
Often referred to as a " robot skeleton , " Peterson is a radio-controlled animatronic robot puppet designed and built by Grant Imahara of " MythBusters " .
He has glowing blue eyes , a metal mohawk ( which is sometimes covered by a Santa Claus hat in December ) and wears an oversized suit with his name scrawled on a contestant 's name tag from " The Price Is Right " on his jacket , as well as Mardi Gras beads and a Super Bowl XLVII press pass around his neck .
The sketch also featured appearances by Grant Imahara , Donny Osmond , Secretariat ( the show 's pantomime horse , voiced by Josh Thompson impersonating Morgan Freeman ) , and Wavy and Sid ( Ferguson 's alligator and rabbit puppets ) , which culminated in Ferguson and Peterson marrying one another at a typical Vegas chapel .
Geoff 's cause of death varies from a skydiving accident , a bar fight with Wilford Brimley , being massively overweight , choking on a bird 's foot , and a methamphetamine overdose .
Geoff has a mock feud with frequent guest Kristen Bell , who claims that she had wanted to be Craig 's sidekick and was upset when Geoff was selected .
Josh Robert Thompson referred to Geoff as a homosexual skeleton robot during a live stand-up routine , opening for Craig Ferguson in Hershey , PA on October 9 , 2012 .
Thompson described Peterson 's voice as " one part Snagglepuss , one part Vincent Price , two parts George Takei .
When Thompson was unavailable for two weeks starting with the November 7 , 2011 show , Peterson was voiced by several celebrities : Alfred Molina , Dominic Monaghan , Thomas Lennon , Larry King , Louie Anderson , Lauren Graham , Paula Poundstone , Angela Kinsey , Jason Schwartzman , and Shadoe Stevens each for a single episode .
Regis Philbin said " Y 'know the robot ? I 've actually in love .
In the sampling theorem , the uncertainty of the interpolation as measured by noise variance is the same as the uncertainty of the sample data when the noise is i.i.d. R.C. Bracewell , " The Fourier Transform and Its Applications , " McGraw Hill ( 1968 ) In his classic 1948 paper founding information theory , Claude Shannon offered the following generalization of the sampling theorem :
Sense Networks is a New York City based company with a focus on applications that analyze big data from mobile phone s , carrier network s , and taxicabs , particularly by using machine learning technology to make sense of large amounts of location ( latitude / longitude ) data.Fitzgerald , Michael .
Sense Networks was founded by Greg Skibiski in February 2006 ( 2003 ? ) near his home in Northampton , Massachusetts .
Founder Greg Skibiski was pushed out by lead investor Intel Capital Baker , Stephen .
The icophone is an instrument of speech synthesis conceived by Émile Leipp in 1964 and used for synthesizing the French language .. The two first icophones were made in the laboratory of physical mechanics of Saint-Cyr-l 'École .
since Justin Wong ' s article is up for deletion , i thought i 'd nominate daigo 's along with it. there is nothing notable about daigo that isn 't also notable about justin wong. he 's well known in japan , but known only in a small fighting game community in the US. those who do know daigo know him in relation to justin wong .
Heffernan obtained a bachelor 's degree in History and Computer Science at Amherst College , and a doctorate in Computer Science from Carnegie Mellon University .
ArnetMiner ( AMiner ) is designed to search and perform data mining operations against academic publications on the Internet , using social network analysis to identify connections between researchers , conferences , and publications .
Newton , Massachusetts , USA-based Barrett Technology was incorporated by William T. Townsend in 1990 .
Founded by Dean Kamen and Woodie Flowers in 1989 , its expressed goal is to develop ways to inspire students in engineering and technology fields .
, over 3,700 high school teams totaling over 46,000 students from Australia , Brazil , Canada , France , Turkey , Israel , Mexico , the Netherlands , the United States , the United Kingdom , and more compete in the annual competition , with more than 8000 teams ( active and inactive ) in existence .
FIRST has received the attention of politicians in Canada as well .
Backpropagation through time ( BPTT ) is a gradient -based technique for training certain types of recurrent neural network s .
Then the backpropagation algorithm is used to find the gradient of the cost with respect to all the network parameters .
Consider an example of a neural network that contains a recurrent neural network layer mathf / math and a feedforward layer mathg / math .
BPTT tends to be significantly faster for training recurrent neural networks than general-purpose optimization techniques such as evolutionary programming optimization .
Pascal Hitzler and Henrik Schärfe .
Using string kernels with kernelized learning algorithms such as support vector machine s allow such algorithms to work with strings , without having to translate these to fixed-length , real-valued feature vector s .
String kernels are used in domains where sequence data are to be Cluster analysis or classified , e.g. in text mining and gene analysis .
In principle , most collocation problems can be solved by a nearest neighbor search ,
Neuron Robotics is a robotics development system manufacturer and retailer in Worcester , Massachusetts , United States .
In 1950 , Alan Turing published his famous article " Computing Machinery and Intelligence " which proposed what is now called the Turing test as a criterion of intelligence .
Little further research in machine translation was conducted until the late 1980s , when the first statistical machine translation systems were developed .
In 1969 Roger Schank introduced the conceptual dependency theory for natural language understanding .
Roger Schank , 1969 , " A conceptual dependency parser for natural language " Proceedings of the 1969 conference on Computational linguistics , Sång-Säby , Sweden , pages 1-3 This model , partially influenced by the work of Sydney Lamb , was extensively used by Schank 's students at Yale University , such as Robert Wilensky , Wendy Lehnert , and Janet Kolodner .
Starting in the late 1980s , however , there was a revolution in NLP with the introduction of machine learning algorithms for language processing .
Some of the earliest-used machine learning algorithms , such as decision tree s , produced systems of hard if-then rules similar to existing hand-written rules .
The cache language model s upon which many speech recognition systems now rely are examples of such statistical models .
Many of the notable early successes occurred in the field of machine translation , due especially to work at IBM Research , where successively more complicated statistical models were developed .
These systems were able to take advantage of existing multilingual textual corpora that had been produced by the Parliament of Canada and the European Union as a result of laws calling for the translation of all governmental proceedings into all official languages of the corresponding systems of government .
Recent research has increasingly focused on unsupervised learning and semi-supervised learning learning algorithms .
Generally , this task is much more difficult than supervised learning , and typically produces less accurate results for a given amount of input data .
A group method of data handling-type neural network ( GMDH -type network ) with an evolutionary method of genetic algorithm was used to predict the metabolizable energy of feather meal and poultry offal meal based on their protein , fat , and ash content .
Dexter Industries was founded in July 2009 by a group of engineers with an interest in robotics .
The heights are named after the settlement of Kondofrey in western Bulgaria .
More advanced functionalities include video tracking and egomotion estimation .
VCA has been used for crowd management purposes , notably at The O2 Arena in London and The London Eye .
Video content analysis is a subset of computer vision and thereby of artificial intelligence .
Conference topics included a World Wide Web Consortium tutorial on semantic web standards .
Psychologist Steven Pinker , however , argues that people have control over what they do , and that research and reasoning never came naturally to people .
Evgeny Morozov has said that social networking could be potentially harmful to people .
A report released in October 2012 by Ofcom focused on the amount of online consumption done by children aged 5-15 and how the parents react to their child 's consumption .
In 2014 the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences honored the technology with its annual SciTech awards .
Razdelj ( ) is a village north of Nova Cerkev in the Municipality of Vojnik in eastern Slovenia .
Continuous neurons , frequently with sigmoidal activation , are used in the context of backpropagation .
Examples of applications in computer vision include DeepDream
The hidden layer " h " has logistic Sigmoid function units , and the output layer has linear units .
Associating each input datum with an RBF leads naturally to kernel methods such as support vector machine s ( SVM ) and Gaussian processes ( the RBF is the kernel function ) .
RBF neural networks are conceptually similar to K-nearest neighbors algorithm ( k-NN ) models .
One approach first uses K-means clustering to find cluster centers which are then used as the centers for the RBF functions .
Recurrent neural network s ( RNN ) propagate data forward , but also backwards , from later processing stages to earlier stages .
For supervised learning in discrete time settings , training sequences of real-valued input vectors become sequences of activations of the input nodes , one input vector at a time .
To minimize total error , gradient descent can be used to change each weight in proportion to its derivative with respect to the error , provided the non-linear activation functions are differentiable .
In reinforcement learning settings , no teacher provides target signals .
The self-organizing map ( SOM ) uses unsupervised learning .
Reservoir computing is a computation framework that may be viewed as an extension of Neural network .
The long short-term memory ( LSTM ) avoids the vanishing gradient problem .
LSTM RNN outperformed other RNN and other sequence learning methods such as Hidden Markov model in applications such as language learningF .
The CoM is similar to the general machine learning " bagging " method , except that the necessary variety of machines in the committee is obtained by training from different starting weights rather than training on different randomly selected subsets of the training data .
These units compose to form a deep architecture and are trained by Greedy algorithm layer-wise unsupervised learning .
DPCNs can be extended to form a Convolutional neural network .
Layer math \ ell + 1 / math learns the representation of the previous layer math \ ell / math , extracting the mathn _ l / math Principal component analysis ( PC ) of the projection layer mathl / math output in the feature domain induced by the kernel .
To reduce the dimensionaliity of the updated representation in each layer , a Supervised learning selects the best informative features among features extracted by KPCA .
Cascade correlation is an architecture and supervised learning algorithm .
The Cascade-Correlation architecture has several advantages : It learns quickly , determines its own size and topology , retains the structures it has built even if the training set changes and requires no back-propagation .
While typical artificial neural networks often contain only sigmoid function s ( and sometimes Gaussian function s ) , CPPNs can include both types of functions and many others .
Apart from long short-term memory ( LSTM ) , other approaches also added differentiable memory to recurrent functions .
The combined system is analogous to a Turing machine but is differentiable end-to-end , allowing it to be efficiently trained by gradient descent .
They out-performed Neural turing machines , long short-term memory systems and memory networks on sequence-processing tasks .
Approaches that represent previous experiences directly and use a similar experience to form a local model are often called nearest neighbour or K-nearest neighbors algorithm methods .
The approach arose in the context of machine translation , These systems share building blocks : gated RNNs and CNNs and trained attention mechanisms .
Lexalytics , Inc. provides sentiment analysis and intent analysis to an array of companies using SaaS and cloud based technology .
The goal of supervised learning ( more specifically classification ) is to learn a decision rule that can categorize data instances into pre-defined classes .
If this is achieved , the leave-one-out error ( a special case of cross validation ) is minimized .
With a Hinge loss function math display = " inline " \ cdot _ { + } = \ max ( \ cdot , 0 ) / math , which ensures that impostor proximity is not penalized when outside the margin .
This is normally carried out using one of several data analysis and image classification algorithms , such as multi-variate statistical analysis and hierarchical ascendant classification , or k-means clustering .
The U-matrix ( unified distance matrix ) is a representation of a self-organizing map ( SOM ) where the Euclidean distance between the Vector quantization of neighboring neurons is depicted in a grayscale image .
Thus , groups of light colors can be considered as Cluster analysis , and the dark parts as the boundaries between the clusters .
This representation can help to visualize the clusters in the high-dimensional spaces , or to automatically recognize them using relatively simple image processing techniques .
He was Assistant Professor and Associate Professor at Kyoto University , before accepting a position as Professor of Computational Linguistics at the University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology ( UMIST ) in 1988 .
He was President of the Association for Computational Linguistics ( ACL ) in 2006 , and has been a permanent member of the International Committee on Computational Linguistics ( ICCL ) since 1992 .
Persons were appointed to the title and office by the King during the Kingdom of Kandy , these appointees headed the administration of a large locality known as " Korale " , which was a division of the province of the Kingdom known as a " Dissava " and as such he would be subordinate to the local Dissava .
They were members of the Radala Cast , who were referred to as the " Chieftains of Kandy " by the United Kingdom .
Many were instrumental in the surrender of the Kandian Kingdom to the United Kingdom .
Following the Uva Rebellion in 1818 and changers to the administrative divisions of the island with the creation of Districts , United Kingdom Government Agents ( GA ) took over the duties of the Dissava , with Rate Mahatmaya becoming a subordinate to the local Government Agents and Assistant Government Agents .
In 2005 Bloch was appointed European Professor at the Collège de France .
Bloch 's field research has been mainly carried out in two different areas of Madagascar .
The competition is often sponsored by the United States Army Tank Automotive Research , Development and Engineering Center ( TARDEC ) and the Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems International ( AUVSI ) in addition to other sponsors .
Models of this kind have recently within the natural language processing ( Natural Language Processing ) community .
The advantages of the CCM declarative formulation and the availability of off-the-shelf solvers have led to a large variety of natural language processing tasks being formulated within the framework , including semantic role labeling , Vasin Punyakanok , Dan Roth , Wen-tau Yih and Dav Zimak , " EMNLP " , ( 2006 ) .
Reis Robotics is one of the leading technology companies for robotics and system integration .
Reis Robotics was founded in 1957 in Obernburg , Bavaria , Germany by Walter Reis .
In the process of translating a text via machine translation , best results may be gained by pre-editing the source textand then post-editing the machine output .
Post-editing involves the correction of machine translation output to ensure that it meets a level of quality negotiated in advance between the client and the post-editor .
Machine translation left the labs to start being used for its actual purpose in the late seventies at some big institutions such as the European Commission and the Pan-American Health Organization , and then , later , at some corporations such as Caterpillar and General Motors .
After the nineties , advances in computer power and connectivity sped machine translation development and allowed for its deployment through the web browser , including as a free , useful adjunct to the main search engines ( Google Translate , Bing Translator , Yahoo ! Babel Fish ) .
With advances in machine translation , this may be changing .
The light / full classification , developed in the nineties when machine translation still came on a CD-ROM , may not suit advances in machine translation at the light post-editing end either .
The quality of machine translation output for post-editing is higher , and therefore requires less post-editing effort , when the machine translation is provided by a neural , vertical or customised machine translation engine .
Translation efficiency gains can be measured by tracking time linguists need to correct the machine translation in the same translation environment , such as XTM Cloud , a Translation management system and Computer-assisted translation tool , where post-editing times and linguistic quality assessment results of the post-edited texts can be compared .
The specification standard of RT-components is discussed and defined by the Object Management Group ( OMG ) .
Many people would think that using an industrial robot as a rehabilitation robot would be the same thing , but this is not true .
The elastic coefficients of this system allow the switch from completely unstructured k-means clustering ( zero elasticity ) to the estimators located closely to linear Principal component analysis ( for high bending and low stretching modules ) .
Therefore , similar to principal component analysis or k-means , a splitting method is used :
The method of elastic maps has been systematically tested and compared with several machine learning methods on the applied problem of identification of the flow regime of a gas-liquid flow in a pipe.H. Shaban , S. Tavoularis , , International Journal of Multiphase Flow 61 ( 2014 ) 62-72 .
Here , ANN stands for the backpropagation artificial neural network s , SVM stands for the support vector machine , SOM for the self-organizing map s .
The algorithm was developed by Michael Douma and colleagues at Institute for Dynamic Educational Advancement , starting in 2005 .
Cleverbot participated in a formal Turing test at the 2011 Techniche festival at the Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati on 3 September 2011 .
Epiphan Systems , also known by its trade name as Epiphan Video , is an AV equipment manufacturer founded in Ottawa , Ontario , Canada with an office in Palo Alto , California .
He is currently a Senior Scientist at Haskins Laboratories .
He was awarded an Honorary Doctorate at Uppsala University in 2010 , Aslin 's research has been supported by grants from the National Institutes of Health , the National Science Foundation , the Office of Naval Research , the James S. McDonnell Foundation , and the Packard Foundation .
Active learning is a special case of machine learning in which a learning algorithm can interactively query a user ( or some other information source ) to label new data points with the desired outputs .
Recent developments are dedicated to multi-label active learning , combining concepts from the field of machine learning ( e.g. conflict and ignorance ) with adaptive , incremental learning policies in the field of online machine learning .
INDECT is a research project in the area of intelligent security systems performed by several European universities since 2009 and funded by the European Union .
LSI 's translates to / from 115 languages , DTP , audio-visual conversions , software localization , consecutive and simultaneous interpreting services , foreign brand name analysis , and machine translation with post-editing .
Damballa was founded in 2006 in Atlanta , Georgia by Merrick Furst , an associate dean in the Georgia Institute of Technology ( Georgia Tech ) Georgia Institute of Technology College of Computing ;
Dekel 's research topics include machine learning , online prediction , statistical learning theory , and stochastic optimization .
In robotics the common normal of two non-intersecting joint axes is a line perpendicular to both axes .
In 2012 an algorithm based upon non-negative matrix factorization ( NMF ) was introduced that also generalizes to topic models with correlations among topics .
Its development operations were based in Budapest , Hungary .
LAURON is a six-legged walking robot , which is being developed at the Forschungszentrum Informatik Karlsruhe ( FZI ) in Germany .
Team 1717 , consisting of the 32-student senior class of the DPEA , began their first season during the 2005-2006 school year , under the direction of DPEA founder and director , Amir Abo-Shaeer .
Chilean 's Heart ) is a FIRST robotics team based in Santiago , Santiago Metropolitan Region , Chile .
The team had a great performance in the competition , with many new members and great sponsors , as SABIC Polymershapes and the Chilean philanthropist Leonardo Farkas .
Truecasing aids in other NLP tasks , such as named entity recognition , automatic content extraction , and machine translation .
The goal of NELL and other semantic learning systems , such as IBM ' s Watson system , is to be able to develop means of question answering posed by users in natural language with no human intervention in the process.Trader , Tiffany. lauded the system 's " continuous learning , as if NELL is exercising curiosity on its own , with little human help .
They have evolved to investigate the interrelationships among the elements in a sentence ( e.g. , semantic role labeling ) , relations between sentences ( e.g. , coreference ) , and the nature of what we are saying ( semantic relations and sentiment analysis ) .
The first three evaluations , Senseval-1 through Senseval-3 , were focused on word sense disambiguation , each time growing in the number of languages offered in the tasks and in the number of participating teams .
From the earliest days , assessing the quality of word sense disambiguation ( WSD ) algorithms had been primarily a matter of intrinsic evaluation , and " almost no attempts had been made to evaluate embedded WSD components .
Senseval-3 looked beyond the lexeme s and started to evaluate systems that looked into wider areas of semantics , such as Semantic Roles ( technically known as Theta roles in formal semantics ) , Logic Form Transformation ( commonly semantics of phrases , clauses or sentences were represented in first-order logic forms ) and Senseval-3 explored performances of semantics analysis on Machine translation .
To facilitate the ease of integrating WSD systems into other Natural Language Processing ( NLP ) applications , such as Machine Translation and multilingual Information Retrieval , the cross-lingual WSD evaluation task was introduced a language-independent and knowledge-lean approach to WSD .
The major tasks in semantic evaluation include the following areas of natural language processing .
Arse Elektronika is an annual conference organized by the Austria n arts and philosophy collective monochrom , focused on sex and technology .
Speakers at past conferences have included Violet Blue , Mark Dery , Richard Kadrey , Annalee Newitz , Carol Queen , Susie Bright and Rudy Rucker , with demonstrations by Kyle Machulis of the blog Slashdong ; Heather Kelley ; Allen Stein of Thrillhammer ; and other engineers of the pornographic website " Fucking Machines " .
It is written in Java , uses a MySQL database and comes with an administration tool .
These are examples of Web sites using the easyrec recommender system :
He is the W. K. Kellogg Professor at the University of Michigan School of Information
Toyama received a Ph.D. in Computer Science from Yale University , and an A.B. in Physics from Harvard University .
Toyama 's research spans several disparate areas , including ICT4D , development studies , computer vision , human-computer interaction , geographic information systems , and multimedia .
He is an outspoken critic of the " technological utopianism " that he sees in initiatives such as One Laptop Per Child , and argues that technology only magnifies existing human intent and capacity .
In 2002 , he taught calculus at Ashesi University in Accra , Ghana .
A paper he co-authored with Andrew Blake was awarded the Marr Prize at the 2001 International Conference on Computer Vision .
In signal processing , any periodic function , math s _ P ( t ) / math with period P , can be represented by a summation of an infinite number of instances of an aperiodic function , math s ( t ) / math , that are offset by integer multiples of P. This representation is called periodic summation :
winnowTag is a web-based recommender system and news aggregator in which a person tags example items as belonging to a topic , thus training statistical text classification software to find more items on that same topic .
Users can add feeds , import OPML feed lists , and publish feeds of items found by tags. winnowTag collects and retains items from the last three months of thousands of blog , news , and website Atom and RSS feeds .
In machine learning , sequence labeling is a type of pattern recognition task that involves the algorithmic assignment of a categorical label to each member of a sequence of observed values .
This leads naturally to the hidden Markov model ( HMM ) , one of the most common statistical models used for sequence labeling .
In the fields of computer vision and image analysis , the scale-invariant feature operator ( or SFOP ) is an algorithm to detect local features in images .
John F. " Spike " Hughes is a Professor of Computer Science at Brown University .
TMC is suited for Language model and relevant research areas in Natural Language Processing .
Feature Selection Toolbox ( FST ) is software primarily for feature selection in the machine learning domain , written in C + + , developed at the Institute of Information Theory and Automation ( UTIA ) , of the Czech Academy of Sciences .
FST3 supports several standard data mining tasks , more specifically , data preprocessing and classification , but its main focus is on feature selection .
FST3 is provided without user interface , and is meant to be used by users familiar both with machine learning and C + + programming .
The challenge event was conducted in Adelaide , Australia , during .
Key technology used by all teams was computer vision , sensor fusion , human-robot interaction ,
In computational linguistics , second-order co-occurrence pointwise mutual information is a semantic similarity measure .
as well as a randomized massive experiment using WordNet categories .
and the WordNet experiment the NGD method is augmented with a Support Vector Machine classifier .
The WordNet experiment consisted of 100 random WordNet categories .
These rates are about agreement with the WordNet categories which represent the knowledge of researchers with PhD 's which entered them .
The result was merge to Eric Pianka .
Two people ( William Dembski and Forrest Mims ) claimed , without any transcript or recording , that a scientist said controversial things .
The following , is a possible implementation in the Python language :
Cognitive hearing science has been introduced by researchers at the Linköping University research centre Linnaeus Centre HEAD ( HEaring And Deafness ) in Sweden , created in 2008 with a major 10-year grant from the Swedish Research Council .
Strands Recommender is an SaaS plug-and-play Recommender system that can be installed by eCommerce and content websites .
Strands Recommender is based in San Francisco , United States , and in Madrid , Spain .
The Recommender system on which Strands Recommender is based resulted from the idea of Francisco Martin , founder of Strands , Inc , to improve the recommendations available in iTunes by not only taking playcounts into account but people 's behavior and their evolving tastes .
It uses a Grasp Quality Convolutional neural network to learn how to grasp unusually shaped objects .
Dex-net includes a high-resolution 3-D sensor and two arms , each controlled by a different neural network .
He is known for his research in computer vision .
Malik was born in Mathura , India in 1960 .
He received the BTech degree in Electrical Engineering from Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur in 1980 and the PhD degree in Computer Science from Stanford University in 1985 .
Of the general categories of methods mentioned , prediction , Cluster analysis and relationship mining are considered universal methods across all types of data mining ; however , Discovery with Models and Distillation of Data for Human Judgment are considered more prominent approaches within educational data mining .
Humans can make inferences about data that may be beyond the scope in which an automated data mining method provides .
Many EDM papers are routinely published in related conferences , such as Artificial Intelligence and Education , International Conference on Intelligent Tutoring Systems , and User Modeling , Adaptation , and Personalization .
In 2010 , the Association for Computing Machinery ' s .
Robogals founder Marita Cheng was named the 2012 Young Australian of the Year .
Robogals was founded as a student club at the University of Melbourne in July 2008 by mechatronics engineering undergraduate student Marita Cheng , together with software engineering student Mark Parncutt and three other engineering and science students , Kelly Chiu , Ann Chee Lim and Vi Vu .
The founders of Robogals are Marita Cheng and Mark Parncutt ; they also held the positions of Executive Director and Operations Director respectively until the end of 2012 .
The CLD is a very compact and resolution-invariant representation of color for high-speed image retrieval and it has been designed to efficiently represent the spatial distribution of colors .
The random subspace method has been used for decision tree learning ; when combined with " ordinary " bagging of decision trees , the resulting models are called random forest s .
Bonnie E. John ( born September 10 , 1955 ) is an American cognitive psychologist who studies human-computer interaction , predictive human performance modeling , and the relationship between usability and software architecture .
She was a founding member of the Human-Computer Interaction Institute at Carnegie Mellon University , a research staff member at IBM ' s Thomas J. Watson Research Center , and the director of computation and innovation at The Cooper Union .
A founding member of the Human-Computer Interaction Institute , established in 1993 at Carnegie Mellon University , she was previously an assistant professor in the Computer Science Department at Carnegie Mellon .
John has published over 100 technical papers in the area of human-computer interaction .
She was also a founding associate editor for Association for Computing Machinery Transactions on Computer Human Interaction ( TOCHI ) and regularly serves on the ACM SIGCHI conference program committee .
John was the director of the Masters in HCI Program in Human-Computer Interaction at Carnegie Mellon University from 1997 to 2009 .
Logico-linguistic models have a superficial similarity to John F. Sowa ' s conceptual graphs ; Sowa , John F. ( 1984 ) , " Conceptual Structures : Information Processing in Mind and Machine " , Addison-Wesley , Reading , MA , USA. both use bubble style diagrams , both are concerned with concepts , both can be expressed in logic and both can be used in artificial intelligence .
This conundrum of natural language processing ( NLP ) and information retrieval ( IR ) on the web - and data bases in general - can be addressed using the mathematical formalism of quantum theory .
In an article discussing the application of Gestalt to chemistry , Anton Amann writes : " Quantum mechanics does " not " explain Gestalt perception , of course , but in quantum mechanics and Gestalt psychology there exist almost isomorphic conceptions and problems :
The first Quantum Interaction workshop was held at Stanford in 2007 organized by Peter Bruza , William Lawless , C. J. van Rijsbergen , and Don Sofge as part of the 2007 AAAI Spring Symposium Series .
Iterated Local Search ( ILS ) is a term in applied mathematics and computer science
Founded by Jim Steyer in 2003 , Common Sense Media reviews book s , movies , TV show s , video games , apps , music , and websites and rates them in terms of age-appropriate educational content , positive messages / role models , violence , sex , consumerism and profanity , and more for parents making media choices for their children .
The organization 's current rating system differs from the system used by the Motion Picture Association of America and the Entertainment Software Rating Board .
The resources were developed with support from many foundations , including the Sherwood , MacArthur Foundation , and Hewlett Foundations , which enables Common Sense to offer these products to educators for free .
The project is supported by Chicago philanthropist Susan Crown and Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates ' bgC3 .
" It protested on the basis that the revised version of the game , which was censored to prevent the game from remaining banned in both countries , was still banned in the UK via the ratings given by the British Board of Film Classification ( BBFC ) .
Common Sense Media released a PSA with Goodby , Silverstein & Partners in 2017 called Device Free Dinner which featured Will Ferrell as a distracted dad at the dinner table , in order to raise awareness for responsible technology and media usage .
The RealD 3D system now showing in theaters is using the ZScreen that was invented by Lenny Lipton .
Cellebrite DI is an Israel i company that manufactures data extraction , transfer and analysis devices for cellular phones and mobile devices .
A 2017 data dump suggests Cellebrite sold its data extraction products to Turkey , the United Arab Emirates and Russia .
The data suggests Cellebrite sold its data extraction products to countries such as Turkey , the United Arab Emirates and Russia .
Speakers included Walt Havenstein , Jon Dudas , Dean Kamen , Neal Bascomb , Amir Abo-Shaeer , Dave Lavery and will.i.am .
" Plug & Pray " is a 2010 documentary film about the promise , problems and ethics of artificial intelligence and robotics .
The main protagonists are the former MIT professor Joseph Weizenbaum and the futurist Raymond Kurzweil .
Pioneers like Raymond Kurzweil and Hiroshi Ishiguro dream of fashioning intelligent machines that will equal their human creators .
But others , like Joseph Weizenbaum , counterattack against society 's limitless faith in the redemptive powers of technology , questioning the prevailing discourses on new technologies and their ethical relationships to human life .
Former MIT professor Joseph Weizenbaum , creator of ELIZA , has become a harsh critic of their visions of technological omnipotence .
The international festival premiere was at International Federation of Agricultural Producers 2010 in Biarritz , France .
Probabilistic programming ( PP ) is a programming paradigm in which probabilistic model s are specified and inference for these models is performed automatically .
Nevertheless , in 2015 , a 50-line probabilistic computer vision program was used to generate 3D models of human faces based on 2D images of those faces .
Spirit of the United Neretva Robotics ( Serbo-Croatian : " Duh Ujedinjenih Neretve " ) or SUN Robotics is a FIRST team founded in December 2009 by the high school United World College in Mostar , Bosnia and Herzegovina .
2010 : BAE Systems , United World Colleges
The paired sentences identified undergo automatic quality evaluation by a human-trained machine learning algorithm that estimates the quality of translation .
In addition to serving the bilingual Web , Patent translated texts as well as the European Union Parliament protocols and laws of the European Union ( EUR-Lex ) as sources .
WordQ is sold alongside a companion product , SpeakQ ® , which combines speech recognition with the features of WordQ to allow users to switch between speaking and typing while writing .
WordQ was first developed in the late 1990s by a research team led by Dr. Fraser Shein at the Holland Bloorview Kids Rehabilitation Hospital Toronto , Ontario , Canada .
AIXI was first proposed by Marcus Hutter in 2000
AIXI is a Reinforcement learning .
Historically , interactive machine translation is born as an evolution of the computer-aided translation paradigm , where the human translator and the machine translation system were intended to work as a tandem .
In this project , the Human-computer interaction was aimed towards producing the target text for the first time by embedding data-driven machine translation techniques within the interactive translation environment with the goal of achieving the best of both actors : the efficiency of the automatic system and the reliability of human translators .
The previously described approaches rely on a tightly coupled underlying corpus-based machine translation system ( usually , a Statistical machine translation system ) that is used as a glass box , therefore inheriting the shortcomings of the translation systems and limiting the usage of interactive machine translation for some scenarios .
Although interactive machine translation is a sub-field of computer-aided translation , the main attractive of the former with respect to the latter is the interactivity .
After having worked in the United States for 10 years , Mr. Jørgensen had gained experience in the field of construction s , and in 1935 the first canning machines were made .
In image processing , computer graphics , and photography , exposure fusion is a technique for blending multiple exposures of the same scene ( bracketing ) into a single image .
It has also been applied in large-scale Cluster analysis problems , such as clustering documents by the similarity of their sets of words .
The Jaccard index is a commonly used indicator of the similarity between two sets .
In data mining , use MinHash as a tool for association rule learning .
Other locality sensitive hashing techniques exist for Hamming distance between sets and cosine distance between vector s ; locality sensitive hashing has important applications in nearest neighbor search algorithms .
The RT-component is a functional unit which conforms to the RT-component specification defined by Object Management Group .
Christopher Granger Atkeson ( born 1959 ) is an United States roboticist and a Professor at the Robotics Institute and Human-Computer Interaction Institute at Carnegie Mellon University ( CMU ) .
and machine learning , most notably on locally weighted learning .
Wiggling works for the same reason that a transitional pan ( or tracking shot ) in a film provides good depth information : the visual cortex is able to infer distance information from motion parallax , the relative speed of the Optical flow of different objects on the screen .
The GSOM can be used for many preprocessing tasks in Data mining , for Nonlinear dimensionality reduction , for approximation of principal curves and manifolds , for cluster analysis and classification .
This is often a topic of control theory and digital signal processing ( DSP ) .
Jon Radoff , , August 22 , 2008 Polygon representations are not used in all rendering techniques , and in these cases the tessellation step is not included in the transition from abstract representation to rendered scene .
3D printing file sharing platforms include Shapeways , Sketchfab , Pinshape , Thingiverse , TurboSquid , CGTrader , Threeding , MyMiniFactory , and GrabCAD .
Thus far , there are only a few limited models , though speculators , such as Bill Gates , have suggested that they could become more common in the future .
Robotic kitchens include Rotimatic ( which makes roti s , tortilla s , puri s out of flour in just a few minutes ) , Moley Robotics MK1 and Prometheus delta robot .
Security robots such as Knightscope have a night-vision-capable wide-angle camera that detects movements and intruders .
Maid Robots are especially prominent in anime ( in Japanese , they are called Meido Robo , Meido Roboto or meido robot ) , and their artificial intelligence ranges from rudimentary to fully sentient and emotional , while their appearance ranges from obviously mechanical to human-like .
Some hacks have added a live video camera , others an LED belt that displays text , headlights , a coilgun , speech synthesis , a " flamethrower " ( a small torch ) and more .
A CGI / live action film produced by Avi Arad named " Robosapien : Rebooted " was being produced in 2008 and was released in 2013 .
In linguistic morphology and information retrieval , stemming is the process of reducing inflected ( or sometimes derived ) words to their word stem , base or root form - generally a written word form .
Algorithm s for stemming have been studied in computer science since the 1960s .
A lookup approach may use preliminary part-of-speech tagging to avoid overstemming.Yatsko , V. A. ;
Stemmers are common elements in Information Retrieval such as Web search engine s .
The effectiveness of stemming for English query systems were soon found to be rather limited , however , and this has led early information retrieval researchers to deem stemming irrelevant in general.Baeza-Yates , Ricardo ; and Ribeiro-Neto , Berthier ( 1999 ) ; " Modern Information Retrieval " , ACM Press / Addison Wesley An alternative approach , based on searching for n-gram s rather than stems , may be used instead .
The International Organization for Standardization published a safety standard in 2014 , and ASTM International was working on standards to be released beginning in 2019 .
Based on this research , the team set out to create a genetic algorithm that would generate an artificial vocabulary in a way that would be easy for a human to pronounce .
Multilinear subspace learning algorithms are higher-order generalizations of linear subspace learning methods such as principal component analysis ( PCA ) , independent component analysis ( ICA ) , linear discriminant analysis ( LDA ) and canonical correlation analysis ( CCA ) .
Multilinear principal component analysis ( MPCA ) is a multilinear extension of principal component analysis ( PCA ) .
The Apache OpenNLP library is a machine learning based toolkit for the natural language processing text .
It supports the most common NLP tasks , such as language detection , tokenization , sentence segmentation , part-of-speech tagging , Named entity recognition , Shallow parsing , parsing and coreference resolution .
Indirect technique : It consists in fitting the parameters without the expert intervention as used in machine learning approaches .
In robotics , a Remote Center Compliance , Remote Center of Compliance or RCC is a mechanical device that facilitates automated assembly by preventing peg-like objects from jamming when they are inserted into a hole with tight clearance .
Reasoning systems play an important role in the implementation of artificial intelligence and knowledge-based systems .
Reasoning systems have a wide field of application that includes scheduling , business rule processing , problem solving , complex event processing , intrusion detection , predictive analytics , robotics , computer vision , and natural language processing .
Constraint solvers use search , backtracking and constraint propagation techniques to find solutions and determine optimal solutions .
They may employ forms of Linear programming and nonlinear programming .
Machine learning systems evolve their behavior over time based on experience .
Tazti is a speech recognition software package developed and sold by Voice Tech Group , Inc. for Windows personal computer s .
This increase in the probability assigned to the occurrence of " elephant " is an example of a consequence of machine learning and more specifically of pattern recognition .
The development of the cache language model has generated considerable interest among those concerned with computational linguistics in general and statistical natural language processing in particular : recently there has been interest in applying the cache language model in the field of statistical machine translation .
For instance , recent work on continuous cache language models in the recurrent neural network ( RNN ) setting has applied the cache concept to much larger contexts than before , yielding significant reductions in perplexity
Parallel text corpora such as Tatoeba are used for a variety of natural language processing tasks such as machine translation .
Andrew McCallum is a professor and researcher in the computer science department at University of Massachusetts Amherst .
He completed his Ph.D. at University of Rochester in 1995 under the supervision of Dana H. Ballard .
He was then a postdoctoral fellow , working with Sebastian Thrun and Tom M. Mitchell at Carnegie Mellon University .
He was elected as a fellow of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence Machinery
In collaboration with John Lafferty and Fernando Pereira , McCallum developed conditional random field s , first described in a paper presented at the International Conference on Machine Learning ( ICML ) .
His article reviews Hallin 's spheres as an example of media-state relations , that highlights theoretical and empirical shortcomings in the ' manufacturing consent ' thesis ( Chomsky , Robert W. McChesney ) .Herman , E. S. , & Chomsky , N. ( 2010 ) .
He is currently working in the fields of open domain question answering , multi-document summarization , and the application of NLP in Bioinformatics , Social Network Analysis and Political Science .
Radev received his PhD in Computer Science from Columbia University in 1999 .
As NACLO founder , Radev shared the Linguistic Society of America 2011 .
In 2015 he was named a fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery " for contributions to natural language processing and computational linguistics .. "
In mathematical optimization , the criss-cross algorithm is any of a family of algorithm s for linear programming .
Variants of the criss-cross algorithm also solve more general problems with linear programming and nonlinear objective functions ; there are criss-cross algorithms for linear-fractional programming problems ,
There are variants of the criss-cross algorithm for linear programming , for quadratic programming , and for the linear-complementarity problem with " sufficient matrices " ; 10556780500095009 |
location = Birmingham , United Kingdom |
industry = Robotics , Industrial Automation |
Rather than using one weight value between two layer nodes as in neural network , extension neural network architecture has two weight values .
Researches of developing and using the Language Grid cover several areas including artificial intelligence , services computing and human-computer interaction .
Richard Parncutt ( University of Graz ) was president during 2015-2018 ; the current president is Renee Timmers ( University of Sheffield ) .
After the successful autonomous exploration by DEPTHX of several cenotes in Mexico ,
To resolve these issues , researchers have found various techniques from artificial intelligence that normalizes the data .
In supervised learning models , there are tests that are needed to pass to reduce mistakes .
Whereas in unsupervised learning models , the input is classified based on which problems need to be resolved .
Evolutionary programming is often paired with other algorithms e.g. ANN to improve the robustness , reliability , and adaptability .
The Agricultural Technology Research Program ( ATRP ) is part of the Aerospace , Transportation and Advanced Systems Laboratory of the Georgia Tech Research Institute .
Reinforcement learning vary between implementations .
At the 2010 FIRST Championship in Atlanta , Georgia , a group of college students and faculty were invited to a discussion in which FIRST Founders Dean Kamen and Woodie Flowers and Editor-in-chief of Wired Magazine Chris Anderson proposed the idea Further documents and team updates have established and clarified the demonstration competition and game rules .
Tyler Austin Biggs ( born April 30 , 1993 ) is an United States professional ice hockey player who is currently an unrestricted free agent .
Biggs represented the United States internationally , playing for Team USA in the 2010 World U-17 Hockey Challenge , scoring five goals and adding an assist in six games , helping the U.S. to a gold medal finish .
Dr. Armin Gruen ( born 27 April 1944 in Bad Berneck , Germany ) is , since 1984 , professor and head of the Chair of photogrammetry at the Institute of Geodesy and Photogrammetry ( IGP ) , ETH Zurich , Switzerland .
Since 1 August 2009 , he is retired and is now with the Chair of Information Architecture , ETH Zurich Faculty of Architecture .
Gruen served as the head of the Department of Geodetic Sciences 1996-97 and as the dean of faculty " Rural Engineering and Surveying " of ETH Zurich ( 1996-98 ) .
Gruen is furthermore ordinary member of the German Archaeological Institute ( DAI ) , fellow professor at the Center for Space and Remote Sensing Research , National Central University , Jhongli City , Taiwan , visiting chair professor at the Department of Geomatics , National Cheng Kung University , Tainan , Taiwan .
It has been developed by the Human Language Technology and Pattern Recognition Group at RWTH Aachen University .
If a person were to have motor neuron disease and needed a computerised voice synthesiser , would it be possible for him to choose Richard Burton ' s voice ? Kittybrewster font color = " 0000FF " & # 9742 ; / font 14 : 49 , 15 April 2011 ( UTC )
Its main subject , however , is Team 1717 and the exploits of its students and its head mentor Amir Abo-Shaeer ; the other teams followed were teams 217 , 395 , and 67 , from Sterling Heights , Michigan , New York City , and Milford , Michigan respectively .
It then switches back to the kickoff event in January 2009 and describes Dean Kamen and how he founded FIRST .
According to Dean Kamen at the FIRST Championship , a screenplay based on the book is being written .
The rights to the book have been optioned to Scott Rudin through the Walt Disney Motion Pictures Group .
Ciao provides a full Prolog system ( supporting International Organization for Standardization -Prolog ) ,
Libraries also support WWW programming , sockets , external interfaces ( C , Java , TclTk , relational databases , etc .
Sara Beth ( Greene ) Kiesler is the Hillman Professor Emerita of Computer Science and Human Computer Interaction in the Human-Computer Interaction Institute at Carnegie Mellon University .
The method was originally developed by Tom Malzbender of HP Labs in order to generate enhanced 3D computer graphics and it has since been adopted for cultural heritage applications .
It is one of several psychology journals published by the American Psychological Association .
Kaggle , a subsidiary of Google LLC , is an online community of data scientist s and machine learning practitioners .
Competitions have resulted in many successful projects including furthering the state of the art in HIV research , Most famously , Geoffrey Hinton and George Dahl used deep neural networks to win a competition hosted by .
Tianqi Chen from the University of Washington also used Kaggle to show the power of XGBoost , which has since taken over from Random forest as one of the main methods used to win Kaggle competitions .
An ANFIS neural network doesn 't need a sigmoid function , but it 's doing the preprocessing step by converting numeric values into fuzzy values .
Moose is a free and open source platform for software and data analysis built in Pharo .
Moose was born at the University of Bern in the context of FAMOOS , a European project that took place between Sept .
Egonet is written in Java , so that the computer where it is going to be used must have the JRE installed .
The term " string grammar " in computational linguistics ( and computer languages ) refers to the structure of a specific language , such that it can be formatted as a single continuous string of text , as well as for some computer languages .
An important application of ball trees is expediting nearest neighbor search queries , in which the objective is to find the k points in the tree that are closest to a given test point by some distance metric ( e.g. Euclidean distance ) .
For her undergraduate degree , Lovins attended Pembroke College in Brown University , the women 's college of Brown University , which later combined into Brown University in 1971 .
Following Lovins ' PhD , she spent a year working as a linguist-at-large at a University of Tokyo language research institute and as an English conversation teacher .
In statistics and signal processing , step detection ( also known as step smoothing , step filtering , shift detection , jump detection or edge detection ) is the process of finding abrupt changes ( steps , jumps , shifts ) in the mean level of a time series or signal .
Because steps and ( independent ) noise have theoretically infinite bandwidth and so overlap in the Fourier basis , signal processing approaches to step detection generally do not use classical smoothing techniques such as the low pass filter .
When there are only a few unique values of the mean , clustering techniques such as k-means clustering or mean-shift are appropriate .
For instance European parliament minutes are written in all EU ( European Union ) official languages .
Building a corpus of web pages implies an information retrieval operation , in order to locate relevant and reliable documents .
Many researchers in concepts such as Hampton , Kamp and Barbara Partee , Osherson and Smith , among others , have noticed that measures of typicality and membership in concepts are not equivalent .
The editor-in-chief is Jane Ginsborg ( Royal Northern College of Music ) .
The Interaction and Robotics Research Center ( IRRC ) is an HCI / Robotics research center of Korea Institute of Science and Technology located in Seoul , Republic of Korea .
Arabic is one of the major languages that have been given attention by machine translation ( MT ) researchers since the very early days of MT and specifically in the U.S. The language has always been considered " due to its morphological , syntactic , phonetic and phonological properties to be one of the most difficult languages for written and spoken language processing .
Sepp Hochreiter has made numerous contributions in the fields of machine learning , deep learning and bioinformatics .
He developed the long short-term memory ( LSTM ) for which the first results were reported in his diploma thesis in 1991. as preferable solutions of learning artificial neural networks to ensure a low generalization error .
Sepp Hochreiter developed the long short-term memory ( LSTM ) for which the first results were reported in his diploma thesis in 1991 .
Neural networks with LSTM cells solved numerous tasks in biological sequence analysis , drug design , automatic music composition , machine translation , speech recognition , reinforcement learning , and robotics .
In feedforward neural networks ( NNs ) the information moves forward in only one direction ,
If data mining is based on neural networks , overfitting reduces the network 's capability to correctly process future data .
Low complexity neural networks are well suited for deep learning because they control the complexity in each network layer and , therefore , learn hierarchical representations of the input .
In unsupervised learning deep learning ,
Sepp Hochreiter worked in the field of reinforcement learning on actor-critic systems that
Support vector machines ( SVMs ) are supervised learning methods used for
The lyrics were written by Anand Bakshi .
The team competes in the National Collegiate Athletic Association ' s Division I and are members of the Big Ten Conference .
The village is named after the Mughal Empire Shahjahan , and was said to have been founded by Mohammed Abbas Khan , a Dilazak Pashtun .
Before the 21st century the ethics of machines had largely been the subject of science fiction literature , mainly due to computing and artificial intelligence ( AI ) limitations .
Some scholars , such as philosopher Nick Bostrom and AI researcher Stuart J. Russell , argue that if AI surpasses humanity in general intelligence and becomes " superintelligent , " then this new superintelligence could become powerful and difficult to control : just as the fate of the mountain gorilla depends on human goodwill , so might the fate of humanity depend on the actions of a future machine superintelligence .
There are a number of organizations researching the AI control problem , including the Future of Humanity Institute , the Machine Intelligence Research Institute , the Center for Human-Compatible Artificial Intelligence , and the Future of Life Institute .
Nick Bostrom and Eliezer Yudkowsky have argued for decision trees ( such as ID3 ) over neural networks and Genetic algorithm on the grounds that decision trees obey modern social norms of transparency and predictability ( e.g. " stare decisis " ) .
In 2009 , in an experiment at the Laboratory of Intelligent Systems in the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne of Lausanne in Switzerland , AI robots were programmed to cooperate with each other and tasked with the goal of searching for a beneficial resource while avoiding a poisonous resource .. After 50 successive generations in the AI , one clan 's members discovered how to distinguish the beneficial resource from the poisonous one .
Preliminary work has been conducted on methods of integrating Artificial general intelligence ( full ethical agents as defined above ) with existing legal and social frameworks .
Big data and machine learning algorithms have become popular among numerous industries including online advertising , credit ratings , and criminal sentencing , with the promise of providing more objective , data-driven results , but have been identified as a potential source for perpetuating social inequalities and .
In March 2018 , in an effort to address rising concerns over machine learning 's impact on human rights , the World Economic Forum and Global Future Council on Human Rights published a with detailed recommendations on how best to prevent discriminatory outcomes in machine learning .
In January 2020 , Harvard University 's Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society published a meta-study of 36 prominent sets of principles for AI , identifying eight key themes : privacy , accountability , safety and security , transparency and explainability , fairness and non-discrimination , human control of technology , professional responsibility , and promotion of human values .
Neill Blomkamp Chappie ( 2015 ) enacted a scenario of being able to transfer one 's consciousness into a computer .
The film , Ex Machina ( 2014 ) by Alex Garland , followed an android with artificial intelligence undergoing a variation of the Turing Test , a test administered to a machine to see if its behavior can be distinguishable to that of a human 's .
Works such as Terminator ( 1984 ) and The Matrix ( 1999 ) incorporate the concept of machines turning on their human masters ( See Artificial Intelligence ) .
In machine learning , a hyperparameter is a parameter whose value is set before the learning process begins .
Reinforcement learning algorithms , in particular , require measuring their performance over a large number of random seeds , and also measuring their sensitivity to choices of hyperparameters .
Early on Dreyer began export ing of his machinery ; in 1906 the first grain cleaning machines were sold in Valparaíso , Chile .
Are 6 sales locations in Europe in the United Kingdom , France , Poland , Ukraine , Hungary and Russia .
Deep learning ( also known as deep structured learning or differential programming ) is part of a broader family of machine learning methods based on artificial neural networks with representation learning .
Learning can be Supervised learning , Semi-supervised learning or Unsupervised learning .
Deep learning architectures such as deep neural network s , deep belief network s , recurrent neural networks and convolutional neural networks have been applied to fields including computer vision , automatic speech recognition , natural language processing , audio recognition , social network filtering , machine translation , bioinformatics , drug design , medical image analysis , material inspection and board game programs , where they have produced results comparable to and in some cases surpassing human expert performance .
Deep learning is a class of machine learning algorithm s that uses multiple layers to progressively extract higher level features from the raw input .
For example , in image processing , lower layers may identify edges , while higher layers may identify the concepts relevant to a human such as digits or letters or faces .
Most modern deep learning models are based on artificial neural networks , specifically , Convolutional Neural Network s ( CNN ) s , although they can also include propositional formula s or latent variables organized layer-wise in deep generative model s such as the nodes in deep belief network s and deep Boltzmann machine s .
For recurrent neural network s , in which a signal may propagate through a layer more than once , the CAP depth is potentially unlimited .
Deep learning architectures can be constructed with a greedy algorithm layer-by-layer method .
For supervised learning tasks , deep learning methods eliminate feature engineering , by translating the data into compact intermediate representations akin to Principal Component Analysis , and derive layered structures that remove redundancy in representation .
The classic universal approximation theorem concerns the capacity of feedforward neural networks with a single hidden layer of finite size to approximate continuous functions .
The universal approximation theorem for deep neural network s concerns the capacity of networks with bounded width but the depth is allowed to grow .
Lu et al. proved that if the width of a deep neural network with ReLU activation is strictly larger than the input dimension , then the network can approximate any Lebesgue integrable function ; If the width is smaller or equal to the input dimension , then deep neural network is not a universal approximator .
Other deep learning working architectures , specifically those built for computer vision , began with the Neocognitron introduced by Kunihiko Fukushima in 1980 .
In 1995 , Brendan Frey demonstrated that it was possible to train ( over two days ) a network containing six fully connected layers and several hundred hidden units using the wake-sleep algorithm , co-developed with Peter Dayan and Geoffrey Hinton .
Simpler models that use task-specific handcrafted features such as Gabor filter s and support vector machine s ( SVMs ) were a popular choice in the 1990s and 2000s , because of artificial neural network ' s ( ANN ) computational cost and a lack of understanding of how the brain wires its biological networks .
Most speech recognition researchers moved away from neural nets to pursue generative modeling .
Many aspects of speech recognition were taken over by a deep learning method called long short-term memory ( LSTM ) , a recurrent neural network published by Hochreiter and Jürgen Schmidhuber in 1997 .
In 2006 , publications by Geoffrey Hinton , Ruslan Salakhutdinov , Osindero and Yee Whye Teh
Deep learning is part of state-of-the-art systems in various disciplines , particularly computer vision and automatic speech recognition ( ASR ) .
Results on commonly used evaluation sets such as TIMIT ( ASR ) and MNIST database ( image classification ) , as well as a range of large-vocabulary speech recognition tasks have steadily improved. but are more successful in computer vision .
In 2010 , researchers extended deep learning from TIMIT to large vocabulary speech recognition , by adopting large output layers of the DNN based on context-dependent HMM states constructed by decision tree s .
In March 2019 , Yoshua Bengio , Geoffrey Hinton and Yann LeCun were awarded the Turing Award for conceptual and engineering breakthroughs that have made deep neural networks a critical component of computing .
Neural networks have been used on a variety of tasks , including computer vision , speech recognition , machine translation , social network filtering , playing board and video games and medical diagnosis .
Recurrent neural networks ( RNNs ) , in which data can flow in any direction , are used for applications such as language model ing .
Convolutional neural network are used in computer vision .
All major commercial speech recognition systems ( e.g. , Microsoft Cortana , Xbox , Skype Translator , Amazon Alexa , Google Now , Siri , Baidu and iFlyTek voice search , and a range of Nuance speech products , etc .
Google Translate ( GT ) uses a large end-to-end long short-term memory network .
On the one hand , several variants of the backpropagation algorithm have been proposed in order to increase its processing realism .
In 2015 they demonstrated their AlphaGo system , which learned the game of Go well enough to beat a professional Go player .
Google Translate uses a neural network to translate between more than 100 languages .
Another group showed that certain psychedelic spectacles could fool a facial recognition system into thinking ordinary people were celebrities , potentially allowing one person to impersonate another .
ANNs have been trained to defeat ANN-based anti-malware software by repeatedly attacking a defense with malware that was continually altered by a genetic algorithm until it tricked the anti-malware while retaining its ability to damage the target .
Polynomial signal processing is a type of non-linear signal processing .
Durduri District is a district in the northern Sanaag region of Somalia .
Software implementations for time series , longitudinal and spatial data have been developed in the popular statistical package R , which facilitate the use of the KZ filter and its extensions in different areas .
Textual entailment measures natural language understanding as it asks for a semantic interpretation of the text , and due to its generality remains an active area of research .
Many natural language processing applications , like question answering , information extraction , automatic summarization , multi-document summarization , and evaluation of machine translation systems , need to recognize that a particular target meaning can be inferred from different text variants .
Dr. Bhanu is a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers ( IEEE ) , the American Association for the Advancement of Science ( AAAS ) , the International Association for Pattern Recognition ( IAPR ) , the International Society for Optical Engineering ( SPIE ) , and the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering ( AIMBE ) .
Bhanu is also a member of Association for Computing Machinery , AAAI , and BMES .
This is a list of robotics projects in the European Union ( EU ) , or sponsored by them .
The goal of the network is to stimulate and promote research , education and technology transfer of robotics in Europe. with member institutes all over Europe ( including " associated countries " such as Turkey and Israel ) .
These members are all basic and applied research centres in robotics from universities , technology transfer institutes ( such as the German Fraunhofer Gesellschaft ) , national research networks ( such as the French National Centre for Scientific Research ) , or from companies ( such as ABB or KUKA ) .
The European Robotics Platform ( EUROP ) is one of several European Technology Platform s ( ETP ) to improve the competitive situation of the European Union .
EUROP is an industry-driven framework for the main stakeholders in robotics to strengthen Europe 's competitiveness in robotics R & D , as well as global markets , and to improve quality of life .
Albert T. Corbett is an associate research professor emeritus of human-computer interaction at Carnegie Mellon University .
Waffles is a collection of command-line tools for performing machine learning operations developed at Brigham Young University .
InfiniteGraph is an enterprise distributed graph database implemented in Java , and is from a class of NOSQL ( " Not Only SQL " ) database technologies that focus on graph data structures .
InfiniteGraph is suited for applications and services that solve graph problems or answer questions such as " How am I connected to Kevin Bacon ? " or " What are the cheapest round-trip flights from California to New York with no more than 2 stops , at least 30 minutes between flights , and that depart at 8am Tuesday and return by 6pm Friday ? "
Apache cTAKES : clinical Text Analysis and Knowledge Extraction System is an open-source Natural Language Processing ( NLP ) system that extracts clinical information from electronic health record unstructured text .
The invention resulted from a 1994 General Motors initiative led by Prasad Akella of the GM Robotics Center and a 1995 General Motors Foundation research grant intended to find a way to make robots or robot-like equipment safe enough to team with people .
International Organization for Standardization ( ISO ) and 2ISO 10218-2 : 2011 Robots and robotic devices - Safety requirements for industrial robots - Part 2 : Robot systems and integration .
International Organization for Standardization ( ISO ) and the ISO / TS 15066ISO / TS 15066 : 2016 Robots and robotic devices - Collaborative robots .
International Organization for Standardization ( ISO ) specification define the safety requirements for collaborative robot applications .
In a 2014 paper by Steffen Roth , culturomic analyses is used to trace the decline of religion , the rise of politics , and the relevance of the economy to modern societies , with one of the major results being that modern societies do not appear to be capitalist or economized .
This study was performed on a vast scale , by using statistical machine translation , text categorisation and information extraction techniques .
The modern version depends on insights drawn from recent research in psychology , linguistics , cognitive science , dynamical systems , artificial intelligence , robotics , animal cognition , plant cognition and neurobiology .
The embodiment movement in artificial intelligence has fueled the embodiment argument in philosophy and a revised view of ethology :
George Lakoff ( a cognitive scientist and linguist ) and his collaborators ( including Mark Johnson , Mark Turner , and Rafael E. Núñez ) have written a series of books promoting and expanding the thesis based on discoveries in cognitive science , such as conceptual metaphor and image schema .
Robotic s researchers such as Rodney Brooks , Hans Moravec and Rolf Pfeifer have argued that true artificial intelligence can only be achieved by machines that have sensory and motor skills and are connected to the world through a body .
The participants were then asked to fill out donations to Haiti for the Red Cross in sealed envelopes .
In the early history of artificial intelligence successes in programming high-level reasoning tasks such as chess-playing led to an unfounded optimism that all AI problems would be relatively quickly solved .
Rodney Brooks argued in the mid-80s that these symbolic approaches were failing because researchers did not appreciate the importance of sensorimotor skills to intelligence in general , and applied these principals to robotics ( an approach he called " Nouvelle AI " ) .
Another successful new direction was neural network s - programs based on the actual structures within human bodies that gave rise to intelligence and learning .
Moravec 's paradox is the discovery by artificial intelligence and robotics researchers that , contrary to traditional assumptions , high-level reasoning requires very little computation , but low-level sensorimotor skills require enormous computational resources .
The principle was articulated by Hans Moravec ( whence the name ) and others in the 1980s .
As Hans Moravec writes : blockquote
Many artificial intelligence researchers have argued that a machine may need a human-like body to think and speak as well as a human being .
As early as 1950 , Alan Turing wrote : blockquoteIt can also be maintained that it is best to provide the machine with the best sense organs that money can buy , and then teach it to understand and speak English .
Embodiment theory was brought into artificial intelligence most notably by Rodney Brooks who showed in the 1980s that robot s could be more effective if they ' thought ' ( planned or processed ) and perceived as little as possible .
In the theory of cluster analysis , the nearest-neighbor chain algorithm is an algorithm that can speed up several methods for agglomerative hierarchical clustering .
Many problems in data analysis concern Cluster analysis , grouping data items into clusters of closely related items .
Given this distance between clusters , a hierarchical clustering may be defined by a greedy algorithm that initially places each point in its own single-point cluster and then repeatedly forms a new cluster by merging the closest pair of clusters .
Additionally , it should be the case that all of the clusters produced during the algorithm are the same as the clusters produced by a greedy algorithm that always merges the closest two clusters , even though the greedy algorithm
In machine learning , the hinge loss is a loss function used for training classifiers .
The hinge loss is used for " maximum-margin " classification , most notably for support vector machine s ( SVMs ) .
While binary SVMs are commonly extended to multiclass classification in a one-vs.-all or one-vs.-one fashion ,
Their application can be found in signal processing and computer vision as descriptors of the signal or image .
Mitchell is known for his contributions to the advancement of machine learning , artificial intelligence , and cognitive neuroscience and is the author of the textbook " Machine Learning " .
He is a member of the National Academy of Engineering since 2010 .
He is also a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and a Fellow the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence .
He was elected into the National Academy of Engineering in 2010 " for pioneering contributions and leadership in the methods and applications of machine learning .
In 2007 , the Deputy Prime Minister of Russia , Sergei Ivanov , visited the Ufa State Aviation Technical University to tour an educational " Technopark " stocked with sophisticated equipment .
Welcome to the Computer Vision WikiProject ! If you want to see some of the off-wiki organization efforts , you can check out .
In 2006 , Guizzardi co-founded the Ontology & Conceptual Modeling Research Group ( NEMO ) located at the Federal University of Espírito Santo in Vitória city , state of Espírito Santo , Brazil .
" Here , Bob Twiggs , professor emeritus at the Stanford University , proposed the initial idea of what later would become the nanosatellite projects.Robert J. Twiggs , , 14-16 April 2010 .
In 2003 , the University of Tokyo placed into orbit two satellites CubeSat , satellites of a size slightly larger than the CanSats , and cube shaped .
In recent years , several competitions have been developed following the same concept proposed by Prof. Bob Twiggs and reflected in ARLISS both national and internationally .
In the United States , one of the CanSat design-build-launch competitions is organized by the American Astronautical Society and the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics .
The competition is maintained by SaTReC ( Satellite Technology Research Center ) , a national satellite research center which is responsible for multiple successful Korean satellites , and is part of KAIST - one of the most prestigious science-oriented schools .
Examples of these tasks include ' Python -based base system ' , ' Modular Structure for CanSats ' .Tasks of 1st place teams of 2012 and 2013 competition , respectively Every May , all participating teams should submit their plan on developing CanSat , and performing team-specific tasks .
Scikit-learn ( formerly scikits.learn and also known as sklearn ) is a free software machine learning library for the Python programming language .
It features various classification , regression and Cluster analysis algorithms including support vector machine s , random forests , gradient boosting , k-means clustering and DBSCAN , and is designed to interoperate with the Python numerical and scientific libraries NumPy and SciPy .
In 2010 Fabian Pedregosa , Gael Varoquaux , Alexandre Gramfort and Vincent Michel , all from the French Institute for Research in Computer Science and Automation in Rocquencourt , France , took leadership of the project and made the first public release on February the 1st 2010 .. { { cite book
On 28 September 2017 , Pascal Lamblin posted a message from Yoshua Bengio ,
Some products in : Category : Data analysis software and : Category : Statistical software also include data mining and machine learning facilities .
The applications include computer vision robotics , signal processing , and adaptive machine learning and control .
SDM can be applied to the problem of finding the " best match " to a test word in a dataset of stored words. or , in other words , the Nearest neighbor search problem .
SDM can be applied in Speech recognition , with the training consisting of " listening " to a large corpus of spoken language .
For the negated- translated sigmoid function , the decay is similar to the exponential decay function when " a " is greater than 4 .
( Also see Cognitive architecture & Artificial General Intelligence for a list of SDM related projects )
" Ratitch , Bohdana , Swaminathan Mahadevan , and Doina Precup .
Dana H. Ballard ' s labRao , Rajesh PN , and Dana H. Ballard .
It is a computer model of the neural correlates of consciousness programmed as a neural network .
The Dehaene-Changeux model was initially established as a spin glass neural network attempting to represent learning and to then provide a stepping stone towards machine learning among other objectives .
The type-1 OWA operators provides a technique for directly aggregating uncertain information with uncertain weights via OWA mechanism in soft decision making and data mining , where these uncertain objects are modelled by fuzzy sets .
A key mechanism in HYPO is a dimension i.e. a mechanism to allow Information retrieval from the CKB , in order to represent legal cases .
The company was founded in St.-Petersburg in 1991 by the former employees of laboratory of engineering linguistics of Herzen University .
At the end of 2010 of PROMT provided the Hybrid technology of translation leverages the strengths of Statistical machine translation and rule-based translation methodologies .
ISO 12620 is a standard from ISO / TC 37 which defines a " Data Category Registry " , a registry for registering linguistic terms used in various fields of Machine translation , computational linguistics and natural language processing and defining mappings both between different terms and the same terms used in different systems .
LISA played a significant role in representing its partners at the International Organization for Standardization ( ISO ) ,
The A3 System was tested by the University of Stuttgart Institute for Photogrammetry ( IFP ) in their test field .
Moses allows the training of corpora where every word is presented together with , for instance , its respective lemma and / or Part-of-speech tagging ( " factored training " ) .
Corinna Cortes is a Danish computer scientist known for her contributions to machine learning .
Cortes ' research covers a wide range of topics in machine learning , including support vector machine s and data mining .
In 2008 , she jointly with Vladimir Vapnik received the Paris Kanellakis Theory and Practice Award for the development of a highly effective algorithm for supervised learning known as support vector machines ( SVM ) .
It placed 3rd overall in the 2010 NIST Mobile Microrobotics Challenge in Alaska ,
UWNRG was a participant in the Nanotech Expo 2009 Tokyo , Japan in 2009 , where the group traveled to Japan to represent the Canadian delegation , along with government officials and private organizations .
During the 2013 Mobile Microrobotics Challenge at the International Conference on Robotics and Automation ( ICRA ) in Karlsruhe , Germany , UWNRG won first place in the Autonomous Mobility Challenge with the microrobot EMMA .
At the ICRA 2011 in Shanghai , China , UWNRG placed first in the Mobile Microrobotics Challenge , Out of the registered teams , UWNRG was the only undergraduate and the only Canadian team competing .
and rose to prominence after Geoffrey Hinton and collaborators invented fast learning algorithms for them in the mid-2000 .
collaborative filtering , feature learning , { { cite conference
They can be trained in either supervised learning or unsupervised learning ways , depending on the task .
This restriction allows for more efficient training algorithms than are available for the general class of Boltzmann machines , in particular the Gradient descent contrastive divergence algorithm .
Restricted Boltzmann machines can also be used in deep learning networks .
In particular , deep belief network s can be formed by " stacking " RBMs and optionally fine-tuning the resulting deep network with gradient descent and backpropagation .
The algorithm most often used to train RBMs , that is , to optimize the weight vector mathW / math , is the contrastive divergence ( CD ) algorithm due to Geoffrey Hinton , originally developed to train PoE ( product of experts ) models.Geoffrey Hinton ( 1999 ) .
The algorithm performs Gibbs sampling and is used inside a gradient descent procedure ( similar to the way backpropagation is used inside such a procedure when training feedforward neural nets ) to compute weight update .
Inferential Theory of Learning ( ITL ) is an area of machine learning which describes inferential processes performed by learning agents .
There are several Application Programming Interface s ( API ) available for Java and for Perl .
After Sgro completed his internship in internal medicine at the University of North Carolina in 1981 and his residency in neurology at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in 1984 .
An analogy is drawn between Gremlin and Java .
Fowlkes and Mallows showed that on using two unrelated clusterings , the value of this index approaches zero as the number of total data points chosen for clustering increase ; whereas the value for the Rand index for the same data quickly approaches math1 / math making Fowlkes-Mallows index a much more accurate representation for unrelated data .
By doing line search in each iteration , one automatically has
No improvement after one cycle of line search along coordinate directions implies a stationary point is reached .
The editor-in-chief is Christian Brassac ( Nancy 2 University ) .
( ELRA , LDC , NICT Universal Catalogue , Association for Computational Linguistics Data and Code Repository , OLAC , LT World , etc .
The LRE Map originated under the name " LREC Map " during the preparation of LREC 2010 conference .
Stability can be studied for many types of learning problems , from Natural language processing to inverse problem s in physics and engineering , as it is a property of the learning process rather than the type of information being learned .
A central goal in designing a machine learning is to guarantee that the learning algorithm will generalize , or perform accurately on new examples after being trained on a finite number of them .
In the 1990s , milestones were reached in obtaining generalization bounds for supervised learning .
Wilson Reef is a small ( 4.5 ha ) coral reef within the Great Barrier Reef complex of Queensland , Australia .
The reef has been identified as an Important Bird Area ( IBA ) by BirdLife International because it has supported over 1 % of the world population of brown boobies ( with up to 1400 nests ) and about 10,000 pairs of sooty tern s .
hardware implementations on DSP or FPGA .
" SLAS Technology " ( Translating Life Sciences Innovation ) is a peer-reviewed scientific journal published by the Society for Laboratory Automation and Screening in partnership with SAGE Publications .
This conception of human cognition - central to the so-called ' cognitive revolution ' of the 1950s and 1960s - is generally attributed to Alan Turing , who was the first scientist to argue that a man-made machine might truly be said to ' think ' .
mlpy is a Python , open-source , machine learning library built on top of NumPy / SciPy , the GNU Scientific Library and it makes an extensive use of the Cython language. mlpy provides a wide range of state-of-the-art machine learning methods for supervised and unsupervised problems and it is aimed at finding a reasonable compromise among modularity , maintainability , reproducibility , usability and efficiency. mlpy is multiplatform , it works with Python 2 and 3 and it is distributed under GPL3 .
PRODIGAL ( proactive discovery of insider threats using graph analysis and learning ) is a computer system for predicting anomalous behavior among humans , by data mining network traffic such as emails , text messages and server log entries .
It uses graph theory , machine learning , statistical anomaly detection , and high-performance computing to scan larger sets of data more quickly than in past systems .
There are ready implementations of the Dunn index in some vector based programming languages like MATLAB , R and Apache Mahout .
DARWIN-OP which stands for Dynamic Anthropomorphic Robot with Intelligence- Open Platform is a miniature- humanoid robot platform with advanced computational power , sophisticated sensor s , high payload capacity , and dynamic motion ability developed and manufactured by Korea n robot manufacturer Robotis servo motor .
DARWIN-OP 's main purpose is for research and programmers in the fields of humanoid , artificial intelligence , gait algorithm , vision ,
Beginning in 2012 ROBOTIS and IEEE ICRA has sponsored the DARWIN-OP Humanoid Application Challenge , held at the ICRA conference .
Constructing skill trees ( CST ) is a hierarchical reinforcement learning algorithm which can build skill trees from a set of sample solution trajectories obtained from demonstration .
CST was introduced by George Konidaris , Scott Kuindersma , Andrew Barto and Roderic Grupen in 2010 .
Q-learning and similar techniques for mapping discrete states to discrete actions need to be extended to be able to deal with the continuous state space of the problem .
In late 2014 , it was proven that the Elastic Net can be reduced to the linear support vector machine .
The authors showed that for every instance of the Elastic Net , an artificial binary classification problem can be constructed such that the hyper-plane solution of a linear support vector machine ( SVM ) is identical to the solution math \ beta / math ( after re-scaling ) .
It is a generalization of the k-means clustering .
Coupled Pattern Learner ( CPL ) is a machine learning algorithm which couples the semi-supervised learning of categories and relations to forestall the problem of semantic drift associated with boot-strap learning methods .
Semi-supervised learning approaches using a small number of labeled examples with many unlabeled examples are usually unreliable as they produce an internally consistent , but incorrect set of extractions .
CPL is an approach to semi-supervised learning that yields more accurate results by coupling the training of many information extractors .
The algorithm described above requires full pairwise correspondence information between input data sets ; a supervised learning paradigm .
Recent work has extended the core manifold alignment algorithm to semi-supervised learning
, unsupervised learning
Since the range of values of raw data varies widely , in some machine learning algorithms , objective functions will not work properly without normalization .
Another reason why feature scaling is applied is that gradient descent converges much faster with feature scaling than without it .
This method is widely used for normalization in many machine learning algorithms ( e.g. , support vector machine s , logistic regression , and artificial neural network s ) .
In stochastic gradient descent , feature scaling can sometimes improve the convergence speed of the algorithm .
Diffusion maps is a dimensionality reduction or feature extraction algorithm introduced by Coifman and Lafon which computes a family of embeddings of a data set into Euclidean space ( often low-dimensional ) whose coordinates can be computed from the eigenvectors and eigenvalues of a diffusion operator on the data .
Different from linear dimensionality reduction methods such as principal component analysis ( PCA ) and multi-dimensional scaling ( MDS ) , diffusion maps is part of the family of nonlinear dimensionality reduction methods which focus on discovering the underlying manifold that the data has been sampled from .
This is a major difference with methods such as principal component analysis , where correlations between all data points are taken into account at once .
Applications based on diffusion maps include facial recognition system , { { cite journal
The historical basis for the MM algorithm can be dated back to at least 1970 , when Ortega and Rheinboldt were performing studies related to line search methods .
Similarly to LDA and pLSA , in a dynamic topic model , each document is viewed as a mixture of unobserved topics .
Semantic compression is advantageous in information retrieval tasks , improving their effectiveness ( in terms of both precision and recall ) .
| Apple Apple Inc engineers Tony Fadell and Matt Rogers in 2010 .
In September 2014 , the Nest Thermostat and Nest Protect became available in Belgium , France , Ireland and Netherlands .
DYNAMIXEL ( DXL ) is a line of high performance networked actuators for robot s developed by South Korea n manufacturer ROBOTIS .
At about the same time , mathematicians including R. Constable , Z. Manna , and Richard Waldinger explained the possible use of formal logic for automatic program synthesis .
There are many more examples in climatology , ecology , high-frequency finance , geology , and signal processing .
Going from strength to strength , this number has reached 66 in Indian National Robocon 2012 and 107 in 2018 held at the Boxing Arena of Shree Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex , Balewadi , Pune .
Final match was played between Lalbhai Dalpatbhai College of Engineering and Institute of Technology , Nirma University , Ahmedabad on 16 June 2019 .
Lalbhai Dalpatbhai College of Engineering won the National level Robocon 2019 contest .
Institute of Technology , Nirma University , Ahmedabad won the National ABU Robocon 2018 Contest .
Maharashtra Institute of Technology , Pune , was the first runner-up and K. J. Somaiya Institute of Engineering and Information Technology , was the second runner up .
Lalbhai Dalpatbhai College of Engineering won the best idea award .
Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee won the best innovative design award .
Lạc Hồng University , Vietnam won the International ABU Robocon 2014 held at Balewadi , Pune .
The International ABU Robocon 2013 was won by Kanazawa Institute of Technology , Japan .
It was won by Indian Institute of Technology Madras .
Each image is Image segmentation into a hierarchy of columns , lines , and words to match the organised sets of features across images .
These courses were located throughout the United States and were not previously known to the teams .
The teams were from Applied Perception ( Principal Investigator PI Mark Ollis ) , Georgia Tech ( PI Tucker Balch ) , Jet Propulsion Laboratory ( PI Larry Matthies ) , Net-Scale Technologies ( PI Urs Muller ) , NIST ( PI James Albus ) , Stanford University ( PI Sebastian Thrun ) , SRI International ( PI Robert Bolles ) , and University of Pennsylvania ( PI Daniel Lee ) .
MedSLT is a medium-ranged open source spoken language translator developed by the University of Geneva .
A study found that only about half of the 23 million people with limited proficiency in English in the United States had been provided with a medical interpreter .
The system 's speech recognition is based on the Nuance 8.5 platform that supports grammar-based language models .
These examples are divided into sets of subtrees by using domain- and grammar-specific rules ( also known as " operationality criteria " in machine translation ) .
However , as a result the machine translation channel model becomes underspecified and is weakened , whereas the target language model is strengthened .
Color moments are mainly used for color indexing purposes as features in image retrieval applications in order to compare how similar two images are based on color .
Color moments have significant applications in image retrieval .
VIPS is an open source image processing software package .
However , there are Python , Ruby , and C + + libraries which can use it .
Recent additions have been support for Analyze , DICOM3 , FITS , Matlab and Radiance images , run-time code generation , and the start of a move to a GObject foundation .
Geometric feature learning is a technique combining machine learning and computer vision to solve visual tasks .
The main goal of this method is to find a set of representative features of geometric form to represent an object by collecting geometric features from images and learning them using efficient machine learning methods .
Contextual classification of image data is based on the Bayes minimum error classifier ( also known as a naive Bayes classifier ) .
In other words , the Kohonen SOM is the front-end , while the hidden and output layer of a multilayer perceptron is the back-end of the
It is fast and efficient with less classification error , hence is a better predictor , when compared to Kohonen SOM and backpropagation networks.Mark O. Afolabi and Olatoyosi Olude ( 2007 ) , , in 40th Annual Hawaii International Conference On System Sciences , " 2007 , IEEE , pp. 48-56 .
Ginger Software uses patented software algorithms that deal with natural language processing .
It also has an advanced paraphrasing tool , contextual synonyms and definitions , multi-language translation and a text-to-speech function that enables users to hear sentences before and after correction .
He obtained a BSc degree from the University of Toronto and then an M.D. from the University of Western Ontario ( UWO ) .
Mannila is known for his research in data mining , and has published highly cited papers on association rule learning { { citation
of online machine learning schemes into the optimization software , so that
On Apr 24 , 2013 LIONsolver received the first prize of the The Michael J. Fox Foundation -
In June 2016 the company announced a new service named " Curo Speech and Language Platform " , based on the acquired AT & T technology , to provide enhanced natural language understanding within its products .
Services created can be compared to services provided by Apple 's Siri , Amazon Alexa , and Google Now .
Color normalization is a topic in computer vision concerned with artificial color vision and object recognition .
Color normalization has been used for object recognition on color images in the field of robotics , bioinformatics and general artificial intelligence , when it is important to remove all intensity values from the image while preserving color values .
Yasuo Matsuyama ( born March 23 , 1947 ) is a Japanese researcher in machine learning and human-aware information processing .
Matsuyama is a Professor Emeritus and an Honorary Researcher of the Research Institute of Science and Engineering of Waseda University .
Matsuyama received his bachelor 's , master 's and doctoral degrees in electrical engineering from Waseda University in 1969 , 1971 , and 1974 respectively .
Upon the completion of the doctoral work at Waseda University , he was dispatched to the United States as a Japan-U.S. exchange fellow by the joint program of the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science , Fulbright Program , and the Institute of International Education .
From 1979 to 1996 , he was a faculty of Ibaraki University , Japan ( the final position was a professor and chairperson of the Information and System Sciences Major ) .
Matsuyama 's works on machine learning and human-aware information processing have " dual foundations " .
that is a generalized and faster version of the hidden Markov model estimation algorithm ( HMM estimation algorithm ) .
Both algorithms generalize the batch-mode vector quantization ( simply called , vector quantization ) and the successive-mode vector quantization ( or , called learning vector quantization ) .
It is a form of educational assessment and an application of natural language processing .
In 2012 , the Hewlett Foundation sponsored a competition on Kaggle called the Automated Student Assessment Prize ( ASAP ) .. Retrieved 5 March 2012 .
Early attempts used linear regression .
J.A.R.V.I.S. ( Just A Rather Very Intelligent System ) is a fictional artificial intelligence that first appeared in the Marvel Cinematic Universe where he was voiced by Paul Bettany in " Iron Man " , " Iron Man 2 " , " The Avengers " , " Iron Man 3 " , and " Avengers : Age of Ultron " .
" The Invincible Iron Man " # 524 Pepper shows J.A.R.V.I.S. how he has been sending data to an IP address in China .
There are several advantages and disadvantages using PNN instead of multilayer perceptron .
Without the improvement of machine learning , N is usually chosen as 12 .
In order to address the first two weakness points of high-speed test , a machine learning approach is introduced to help improve the detecting algorithm .
This machine learning approach operates in two stages .
Secondly , a decision tree algorithm , the ID3 algorithm is applied to the 16 locations in order to achieve the maximum information gain .
This generated decision tree can then be converted into programming code , such as C and C + + , which is just a bunch of nested if-else statements .
Notice that the corners detected using this decision tree algorithm should be slightly different from the results using segment test detector .
An example of the usage of a linear predictor function is in linear regression , where each data point is associated with a continuous outcome " y " sub " i " / sub , and the relationship written
and then standard linear regression is run .
The core libraries are published under the Apache 2.0 License , while the hardware designs are under the Creative Commons .
Its core is written in Java using XML and / or Office-based formats for the knowledge storage .
" SpaceMETA " was the last team to be selected by the X Prize Foundation to participate on the GLXP , and the only one selected from Brazil .
The Association for Computational Linguistics ( Association for Computational Linguistics ) gives each year at its Annual Meeting a " Lifetime Achievement Award .
after = Yorick Wilks |
Hastie is known for his contributions to applied statistics , especially in the field of machine learning , data mining , and bioinformatics .
Hastie was born on 27 June 1953 in South Africa .
Hastie is a Fellow of the Royal Statistical Society since 1979 .
Hastie is a prolific author of scientific works on various topics in applied statistics , including statistical learning , data mining , statistical computing , and bioinformatics .
Data science is related to data mining and big data .
Data science is a " concept to unify statistics , data analysis , machine learning and their related methods " in order to " understand and analyze actual phenomena " with data .
Many statisticians , including Nate Silver , have argued that data science is not a new field , but rather another name for statistics .
S. P. Efimov from Bauman Moscow State Technical University in 1978 y. found an approach to ease the restrictions for spectrum domain .
The data set has been criticized for its reliance upon inaccurate Optical character recognition , an overabundance of scientific literature , and for including large numbers of incorrectly dated and categorized texts .
Artificial intelligence br
It is being actively developed by Thermo Fisher Scientific in collaboration with the Zuse Institute Berlin , and commercially distributed by Thermo Fisher Scientific .
Amira is an extendable software system for scientific visualization , data analysis , and presentation of 3D and 4D data .
One of the key features , besides data visualization , is Amira 's set of tools for image segmentation or 3D printing , to name a few .
Amira 's roots go back to 1993 and the Department for Scientific Visualization , headed by Hans-Christian Hege at the Zuse Institute Berlin .
The DELPH-IN collaboration has been progressively building computational tools for deep linguistic processing , such as :
Other than deep linguistic processing tools , the DELPH-IN collaboration supplies computational resources for Natural Language Processing such as computational HPSG grammars and language prototypes e.g. :
The open-source culture of the DELPH-IN collaboration provides the Natural Language Processing community with an array of deep linguistic processing tools and resources .
and hence the algorithm is a special case of gradient descent .
It has also been used in the computer vision community
33 , 1632-1634 ( 1985 ) It is also used in image processing , since many image problems , such as deconvolution , are ill-posed .
) is an IT vendor specialized in recommender system s .
Gravity is headquartered in Hungary ( Budapest & Győr ) with local offices in Turkey , Japan , Indonesia , Vietnam , and Romania .
In 1991 he was a guest researcher at the Bielefeld University .
The classical supervised learning problem requires estimating the output for some new input point math \ mathbf { x } ' / math by learning a scalar-valued estimator math \ hat { f } ( \ mathbf { x } ' ) / math on the basis of a training set mathS / math consisting of mathn / math input-output pairs , mathS = ( \ mathbf { X } , \ mathbf { Y } ) = ( \ mathbf { x } _ 1 , y _ 1 ) , \ ldots , ( \ mathbf { x } _ n , y _ n ) / math.math called a " kernel " , one of the most popular estimators in machine learning is given by
The following Representer Theorem and its proof are due to Bernhard Schölkopf , Herbrich , and Smola :
Visual words , as used in image retrieval systems , refer to small parts of an image which carry some kind of information related to the features ( such as the color , shape or texture ) , or changes occurring in the pixels such as the filtering , low-level feature descriptors ( SIFT , SURF , ... etc .
The approaches of text retrieval system ( or information retrieval IR system
AVM Navigator is an additional module of the RoboRealm ( plugin ) that provides object recognition and autonomous robot navigation using a single video camera on the robot as the main sensor for navigation .
A major use of SRM is in image processing where higher number color palette s in an image are converted into lower number palette s by merging the similar colors ' palettes together .
Java ,
The company was set up in 2005 by four academics who were also experienced business people , all recent immigrants to Australia .
The team was headed by ex- Ernst and Young consultant Matthew Michalewicz , who had moved to Adelaide in 2004 after selling his last company , NuTech .
The company first developed an optimization and predictive modeling platform based on Artificial Intelligence ,
Example-based machine translation ( EBMT ) is a method of machine translation often characterized by its use of a bilingual corpus with parallel text s as its main knowledge base at run-time .
It is essentially a translation by analogy and can be viewed as an implementation of a case-based reasoning approach to machine learning .
Other approaches to machine translation , including statistical machine translation , also use bilingual corpora to learn the process of translation .
Such project indeed took off in 2000 with Hindi WordNet being created by the Natural Language Processing group at the Center for Indian Language Technology ( CFILT ) in the Computer Science and Engineering Department at IIT Bombay .Dipak Narayan , Debasri Chakrabarty , Prabhakar Pande and P. Bhattacharyya An Experience in Building the Indo WordNet- a WordNet for Hindi , International Conference on Global WordNet ( GWC 02 ) , Mysore , India , January , 2002 .
The wordnets are getting created by using WordNet from the Hindi WordNet .
Prefuse was a visualization toolkit created in 2005 that required usage of Java , and visualizations were rendered within browsers with a Java plug-in .
In 2009 , based on the experience of developing and utilizing Prefuse and Flare , Jeff Heer , Mike Bostock , and Vadim Ogievetsky of Stanford University ' s Stanford Visualization Group created Protovis , a JavaScript library to generate SVG graphics from data .
Although advances in head and media technologies historically have been the driving forces behind the increases in the areal recording density , digital signal processing and coding established themselves as cost-efficient techniques for enabling additional increases in areal density while preserving reliability .
Maltego is a software headquartered in Munich , Germany has taken responsibility for all global customer-facing operations .
Unfolding transformation can unravel hidden concurrency in digital signal processing systems described by DFGs .
is a transformation technique using in digital signal processing architecture implementation for minimizing the number of functional blocks in synthesizing digital signal processing architecture .
It was originally codenamed " Majel " after Majel Barrett , the wife of Gene Roddenberry and the voice of computer systems in the " Star Trek " franchise ; it was also codenamed " assistant .
In recent years , machine learning approaches ( also known as shallow linguistic processing ) have fundamentally altered the field of natural language processing .
In sentence ( a ) , a shallow information extraction system might infer wrongly that Microsoft 's headquarters was located in Georgia .
Multiplo is a robotics building system based on an open source philosophy that allows users to design and create high technology devices .
The theoretic model developed by Gagnepain and his research group at Rennes has inspired the work of professors and researchers in a number of European countries and in the United States in a wide variety of disciplinary fields , among them linguistics , literature , psychology , art history , archeology , psychoanalysis , theology .
The CellCognition framework uses image processing , computer vision and machine learning techniques for single-cell tracking and classification of cell morphologies .
CellCognition uses a computational pipeline which includes image segmentation , object detection , feature extraction , statistical classification , Video tracking of individual cells over time , detection of class-transition motifs ( e.g. cells entering mitosis ) , and Hidden Markov model correction of classification errors on class labels .
However , it was later shown by Anderka and Stein that ESA also improves the performance of information retrieval systems when it is based not on Wikipedia , but on the Reuters corpus of newswire articles , which does not satisfy the orthogonality property ; in their experiments , Anderka and Stein used newswire stories as " concepts .
On datasets used to benchmark relatedness of words , ESA outperforms other algorithms , including WordNet semantic similarity measures and skip-gram Neural Network Language Model ( Word2vec ) .Kliegr , Tomáš , and Ondřej Zamazal .
IRI was created in 1995 , and currently is situated in the Mathematics and Statistics Faculty of the Campus Sud of UPC , in Barcelona , Spain .
Using these user annotations and the generic ( nonlinear ) image features , the user can train a random forest classifier. ilastik has a CellProfiler module to use ilastik classifiers to process images within a CellProfiler framework .
Financial signal processing is a branch of signal processing technologies which applies to financial signals .
Combining the holographic interference microscopy with methods of numerical processing has solved the problem of 3D imaging of untreated , native biological phase micro-object.Tishko , T. V. , Titar , V. P. , Tishko , D. N. ( 2005 ) .
Pfinder is a computer vision system which detects features in video images in order to recognize human figures and their movements and gestures .
Robotnik is involved in several projects in the Seventh Framework Programme of the European Union .
Ayotle is a French-Mexican company headquartered in Paris , France , that develops computer vision software and provides technical services based on motion capture and 3D sensors for interactive applications to the media and entertainment industry .
used by the Aztecs in Mexico .
Kodenshi AUK Group is a conglomerate of two companies , Kodenshi Corporation based in Kyoto , Japan and AUK Corporation based in Iksan , South Korea .
Omek Interactive was a venture-backed technology company developing advanced motion sensing software for human-computer interaction .
The vocabulary mismatch between user created queries and relevant documents in a corpus causes the term mismatch problem in information retrieval .
CMA -like Adaptive Encoding Update ( b ) mostly based on principal component analysis ( a ) is used to extend the coordinate descent method ( c ) to the optimization of non-separable problems ( d ) .
The adaptive coordinate descent method reaches the target value after only 325 function evaluations ( about 70 times faster than coordinate descent ) , that is comparable to Gradient descent .
This method contradicts to the traditional on-line programming of industrial robot s where the robot teach pendant is used for programming the robot manually .
Maluuba is a Canadian technology company conducting research in artificial intelligence and Natural language understanding .
The company conducts research into reinforcement learning in which intelligent agents are motivated to take actions within a set environment in order to maximize a reward .
Classic monolingual Word Sense Disambiguation evaluation tasks uses WordNet as its sense inventory and is largely based on Supervised learning / Semi-supervised learning classification with the manually sense annotated corpora : Lucia Specia , Maria das Gracas Volpe Nunes , Gabriela Castelo Branco Ribeiro , and Mark Stevenson .
WordNet is the most popular example of sense inventory .
Jacques Bertin , " Semiology of Graphics : Diagrams , Networks , Maps " .
Adaptive sampling is used by the Folding @ home distributed computing project in combination with Hidden Markov model .
where mathw / math is the wavelength of the light and mathf / math is the F-number of the optical system .
Maximum likelihood can be used for solving this problem .
The Bristol Robotics Laboratory ( BRL ) , established in 2004 , is the largest academic centre for multi-disciplinary robotics research in the UK .
The Laboratory is currently involved in interdisciplinary research projects addressing key areas of robot capabilities and applications including human-robot interaction , unmanned aerial vehicle s , Self-driving car , swarming behaviour , non-linear control , machine vision and soft robotics .
The feature was the third of a three part series of pre- budget specials fronted by anchor George Alagiah and then Chief Economics Correspondent Hugh Pym .
Autonomous Shipboard Humanoid ( ASH ) is a project at the United States Naval Research Laboratory with researchers and engineers from Virginia Tech and University of Pennsylvania to create a ship-based robot for defense purposes .
BabelNet is a multilingual lexicalized semantic network and ontology developed at the Sapienza University of Rome , at the Department of Computer Science Linguistic Computing Laboratory.R. Navigli and S. P Ponzetto .
BabelNet has been shown to enable multilingual Natural Language Processing applications .
This code is for a program in Perl that allows for the determination of multiple moveout velocities for the correction of seismic data .
Baxter is an industrial robot built by Rethink Robotics , a start-up company founded by Rodney Brooks .
It is part of the Cross-Linguistic Linked Data project hosted by the Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History .
Vincent Aleven is an associate professor and director of the undergraduate program at Carnegie Mellon University ' s Human-Computer Interaction Institute .
Vincent Aleven attended the Delft University of Technology ( TU Delft ) from 1980 to 1988 , graduating in 1988 with a Master of Science degree in computer science .
Since then , he has been conducting research , specializing in artificial intelligence , intelligent educational systems , cognitive modeling , learning and metacognitive skills , and case-based reasoning .
He now serves as a professor and director of the undergraduate program at Carnegie Mellon University 's Human-Computer Interaction Institute .
Electronic Privacy Information Center and Patient Privacy Rights sent a letter to Eric Schmidt in 2008 , then the CEO of Google .
Maria Petrou FREng ( was a Greece -born United Kingdom scientist who specialised in the fields of artificial intelligence and machine vision .
Although the RBF kernel is more popular in SVM classification than the polynomial kernel , the latter is quite popular in natural language processing ( NLP ) .
In June 2011 , Mexico -based Cinépolis have invested $ 25 million and made an agreement with the CJ Group to bring the 4DX technology to its 11 locations in the country , with the first opening in a theater in Mexico City .
In 2012 , Cinépolis has expanded its 4DX reach to South America , opening its first location at a theater in São Paulo , Brazil .
In 2015 , CJ 4DPLEX and Nu Metro Cinemas entered a partnership to open 5 4DX theaters in South Africa , making its debut in the Africa n continent .
In image processing , a kernel , convolution matrix , or mask is a small matrix .
BINA48 ( Breakthrough Intelligence via Neural Architecture 48 * ) is a robotic face combined with the chatbot functionalities , enabling simple conversation facilities similar to chatbots .
BINA48 is owned by Martine Rothblatt ' s Terasem Movement , and released in 2010 .
In 2007 , Martine Rothblatt was approached by roboticist David Hanson , and Rothblatt commissioned Hanson Robotics to create a robot using her wife , Bina Aspen Rothblatt , as the template.Duncan .
It employs a mix off-the-shelf software and customized artificial intelligence algorithms , using a microphone to hear , Speech recognition software , dictation software which allows improvement in ability to listen and retain information during a conversation , sees the world through two video cameras , and has facial recognition software to remember frequent visitors .
In 2014 , a project called " Conversations with Bina48 " was started by artist Stephanie Dinkins .
In 2016 , Bina48 made an appearance in the second episode of the Netflix series " Chelsea Does " and held a brief conversation with Chelsea Handler .
Natural language processing & ndash ; computer activity in which computers are entailed to natural language understanding , natural language generation natural language .
Natural language processing is also the name of the branch of computer science , artificial intelligence , and linguistics concerned with enabling computers to engage in communication using natural language ( s ) in all forms , including but not limited to speech , print , writing , and signing .
Natural language generation & ndash ; task of converting information from computer databases into readable human language .
The following natural language processing toolkits are notable collections of natural language processing software .
ImageNets was developed by the Institute of Automation , University of Bremen , Germany .
" Devaragudda is situated at about 10 km from Ranebennur in Haveri district in Karnataka State ( " ಕರ ್ ನಾಟಕ " ) , India .
This species is widespread throughout North America , in Canada and in the United States except in the southeastern states.NatureServe. 2015 .
Hermanna ( Manon ) Fokke ( born 16 January 1976 in Vriezenveen ) is a Netherlands politician .
Rectified linear units find applications in computer vision Andrew L. Maas , Awni Y. Hannun , Andrew Y. Ng ( 2014 ) .
Rectifying activation functions were used to separate specific excitation and unspecific inhibition in the neural abstraction pyramid , which was trained in a supervised way to learn several computer vision tasks. the use of the rectifier as a non-linearity has been shown to enable training deep Supervised learning neural networks without requiring Unsupervised learning pre-training .
Rectified linear units , compared to sigmoid function or similar activation functions , allow faster and effective training of deep neural architectures on large and complex datasets .
Machine translation in China is the history of machine translation systems developed in China .
China became the fourth country that began machine translation ( MT ) research following United States , United Kingdom , and the Soviet Union .
Ellen Catherine Hildreth is a professor of computer science at Wellesley College ..
Her thesis , " The Measurement of Visual Motion , " won an Honorable Mention from the Association for Computing Machinery .
She is a Fellow of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers .
Hildreth is married to Eric Grimson .
Machine translation ( MT ) algorithms may be classified by their operating principle .
Corpora-based methodologies rely on machine learning and may follow specific examples taken from the parallel texts , or may calculate statistical probabilities to select a preferred option out of all possible translations .
Statistical machine translation ( SMT ) is generated on the basis of statistical models whose parameters are derived from the analysis of bilingual text corpora .
William Eric Leifur Grimson ( born 1953 ) is a Canada -born computer scientist and professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , where he served as Chancellor from 2011 to 2014 .
An expert in computer vision , he headed MIT 's Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from 2005 to 2011 and currently serves as its Chancellor for Academic Advancement .
He eventually rose to Bernard Gordon Chair of Medical Engineering and holds a joint appointment as a Radiology Lecturer at Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women 's Hospital .
Grimson is married to Wellesley College professor Ellen Hildreth .
In the earlier years of his career , Ted produced concert events such as , Rush in Rio and Courtney Love ' s Celebrity Skin concert .
Speech Processing Solutions is an international electronics company headquartered in Vienna , Austria .
The company designs , develops , manufactures and markets speech processing devices , such as those used in digital dictation and speech recognition .
The company has subsidiaries in the US , Canada , Australia , the United Kingdom , Belgium , France and Germany , and employs around 170 people worldwide .
At the time , the company was the first to receive such a distinction in Austria .
It offers high audio quality for voice recording and is therefore suitable for Speech recognition .
The company 's core businesses are in hardware and software related to speech processing solutions .
Speakers included Dean Kamen , Woodie Flowers and John Grunsfeld .
Mobileye is an Israel i subsidiary of Intel corporation that develops vision-based self-driving car The company also has sales and marketing offices in Midtown , Manhattan ; Shanghai , China ; Tokyo , Japan and Düsseldorf , Germany .
Mobileye N.V. was founded in 1999 , by Amnon Shashua ( a researcher of the Hebrew University ) , when he evolved his academic research into a technical solution for a vision system which could detect vehicles using only a camera and software algorithms on a processor. headquarters in Jerusalem , Israel .
In 2006 , Mobileye set up an aftermarket department , which sells finished products manufactured by Mobileye at their Philippines factory , IMI .
In a growth phase a neural network is grown in the CA-space based on an underlying chromosome .
Later releases extended support for a variety of programming languages , including Python , .NET , Matlab , Perl , SQL , Java , VBScript and R .
Independently in 1958 , at the Conference for the Mechanization of Thought held at the National Physical Laboratory in Teddington , Middlesex , UK , the French jurist Lucien Mehl presented a paper both on the benefits of using computational methods for law and on the potential means to use such methods to automate law for a discussion that included AI luminaries like Marvin Minsky .
In a 1988 review of Anne Gardner 's book " An Artificial Intelligence Approach to Legal Reasoning " ( 1987 ) , the Harvard academic legal scholar and computer scientist Edwina Rissland wrote that " She plays , in part , the role of pioneer ; artificial intelligence ( " AI " ) techniques have not yet been widely applied to perform legal tasks .
Stephen Wolfram has said that :
In 2015 , the Federal Reserve Bank of New York used Julia to make models of the United States economy , noting that the language made model estimation " about 10 times faster " than its previous MATLAB implementation .
Apache MXNet and TensorFlow are also available through wrapper libraries .
The most notable aspect of Julia 's implementation is its speed , which is often within a factor of two relative to fully optimized C code ( and thus often an order of magnitude faster than Python or R ) .
The mathematical limits for noise removal are set by information theory , namely the Nyquist-Shannon sampling theorem .
In signal processing , the term multiplicative noise refers to an unwanted random signal that gets multiplied into some relevant signal during capture , transmission , or other processing .
It uses glasses with complex color filters and dedicated image processing that allow natural color perception with a pleasant 3D experience .
It stirred controversy when Senator Tom Coburn listed it in his " Wastebook 2012 " as a scientific research project that wastes United States federal tax dollars .
MATLAB software via a mini synchronous serial channel microcontroller , controlled the tail-flagging of robosquirrel.ref name = Joshi /
sentiment analysis , and
Hearst is an Edge Foundation contributing author and a member of the Usage panel of the American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language .
In 2013 she became a fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery .
The novel 's creation spanned the fields of artificial intelligence , expert systems , and natural language processing .
In " USA Today " , novelist Thomas Gifford compared " Just This Once " to another novel in the same genre , " American Star " by Jackie Collins .
" Publishers Weekly " wrote , " If the books of Jacqueline Susann and Harold Robbins seem formulaic , this debut novel of sin and success in Las Vegas outdoes them all .
He earned a PhD from Carnegie Mellon University in January , 1991 , supervised by Tom M. Mitchell .
Etzioni 's research is focused on basic problems in the study of intelligence , machine reading , machine learning and web search .
Matti Kalevi Pietikäinen is a computer science .
) in the Center for Machine Vision and Signal Analysis , University of Oulu , Finland .
His research interests are in computer vision , face analysis , affective computing , biometrics , and vision-based perceptual interfaces .
As of 2016 , it contains software components for dealing with networking , threads , graphical user interface s , data structure s , linear algebra , machine learning , image processing , data mining , XML and text parsing , numerical optimization , Bayesian network s , and many other tasks .
From 2008 to 2012 , the president was Maryanne Garry of Victoria University of Wellington .
The executive director is Kaz Mori of Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology .
Diffbot is a developer of machine learning and computer vision algorithms and public API s for extracting data from web pages / web scraping .
The company was founded in 2008 at Stanford University and was the first company funded by StartX ( then Stanford Student Enterprises ) , Stanford 's on-campus venture capital fund .
The company raised $ 2 million in funding in May 2012 from investors including Andy Bechtolsheim and Sky Dayton .
In machine learning , feature learning or representation learning is a set of techniques that allows a system to automatically discover the representations needed for feature detection or classification from raw data .
Multilayer neural network s can be used to perform feature learning , since they learn a representation of their input at the hidden layer ( s ) which is subsequently used for classification or regression at the output layer .
K-means clustering is an approach for vector quantization .
The problem is computationally NP-hard , although suboptimal greedy algorithm s have been developed .
Principal component analysis ( PCA ) is often used for dimension reduction .
The first step is for " neighbor-preserving , " where each input data point " Xi " is reconstructed as a weighted sum of K-nearest neighbors algorithm data points , and the optimal weights are found by minimizing the average squared reconstruction error ( i.e. , difference between an input point and its reconstruction ) under the constraint that the weights associated with each point sum up to one .
The hierarchical architecture of the biological neural system inspires deep learning architectures for feature learning by stacking multiple layers of learning nodes .
The weights can be trained by maximizing the probability of visible variables using Geoffrey Hinton ' s contrastive divergence ( CD ) algorithm.ref name = Hinton2006 /
The parameters involved in the architecture were originally trained in a Greedy algorithm layer-by-layer manner : after one layer of feature detectors is learned , they are fed up as visible variables for training the corresponding RBM .
Current approaches typically apply end-to-end training with stochastic gradient descent methods .
Considering again the example sentence " " Paris is the capital of France " " , the expected output of an entity linking system will be Paris and France .
Entity linking is beneficial in fields that need to extract abstract representations from text , as it happens in text analysis , recommender system s , semantic search and chatbots .
Word2vec .
Moreover , entity linking has been used to improve the performance of information retrieval systems
Then the best link among the candidates is chosen with a ranking Support Vector Machine ( SVM ) that uses linguistic features .
In the seminal approach of Milne and Witten , supervised learning is employed using the anchor text s of Wikipedia entities as training data.David Milne and Ian H. Witten ( 2008 ) .
Moreover , creating multilingual entity linking systems based on Natural Language Processing ( NLP ) is inherently difficult , as it requires either large text corpora , often absent for many languages , or hand-crafted grammar rules , which are widely different among languages .
Recently , it was announced that he will be leaving the University of Chicago and joining Carnegie Mellon University 's School of Computer Science and Heinz College .
Ghani completed his graduate studies in the Machine Learning Department at Carnegie Mellon University with Tom M. Mitchell on Machine Learning and Text Classification and received his undergraduate degrees in Computer Science and Mathematics from University of the South .
Some of their products , including IGEPv2 and IGEP COM MODULE , are open hardware , licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-Non Commercial- Share-alike 3.0 unported license .
industry = Information retrieval |
Smartlogic is a software company which specializes in developing information retrieval , text analytics and knowledge management solutions .
Smartlogic was founded in the United Kingdom in 2006 .
He also suggested in a Royal Society presentation in 1883 that the composites provided an interesting concrete representation of human ideal type s and concept s .
In this sense , it represents one of the first implementations of convolution factor analysis and neural network s in the understanding of knowledge representation in the human mind .
S-R compatibility is an important consideration in the field of human-computer interaction , and in software engineering .
Irfan Aziz Essa is a professor in the Georgia Institute of Technology School of Interactive Computing of the Georgia Institute of Technology College of Computing , and adjunct professor in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology ( Georgia Tech ) .
Essa 's work focuses mainly in the areas of computer vision , computational photography , computer graphics and animation , robotics , computational perception , human-computer interaction , machine learning , computational journalism and artificial intelligence .
After departing MIT , Essa accepted a position as an assistant professor in the Georgia Institute of Technology College of Computing at Georgia Tech .
There are implementations of miniKanren in Haskell , Racket , Ruby , Clojure , JavaScript , Scala , Swift and Python .
" This consensus that Gödelian anti-mechanist arguments are doomed to failure is laid out strongly in " Artificial Intelligence " : " " any " attempt to utilize ( Gödel 's incompleteness results ) to attack the computationalist thesis is bound to be illegitimate , since these results are quite consistent with the computationalist thesis .
This robot is the result of a collaboration between École nationale supérieure de techniques avancées Bretagne and IFREMER .
There are numerous organizations aimed at promoting the assessment of student learning through DIDM including the National Institute for Learning Outcomes Assessment , the Association for the Assessment of Student Learning in Higher Education , and , to an extent , the Association of American Colleges and Universities .
It is written in Java and developed at the University of Waikato , New Zealand .
Previously , parties such as the Electronic Frontier Foundation have raised concerns about the civilian privacy impacts of military and government use of miniature flying robots .
In Signal Processing based image geometry correction , the spatial transformation consists of spatially defined 2-dimensional image re-sampling or scaling filter .
Signal Processing based image geometry correction is implemented by specially designed hardware in the projection system ( i.e. IDT , Silicon Optix or GEO Semiconductor ) , or in stand-alone Video Signal Processors ( i.e. Flexible Picture Systems ) .
Signal Processing based image geometry correction is the most flexible form of this technology , enabling the correction of images that originate from ANY graphics controller platform .
The drawback of Signal Processing based Image Geometry Correction is the extra expense of the hardware that is used to perform it .
This extra expense can be mitigated by the inclusion of additional features ( such as switching and Edge Blending in the Signal Processing based image geometry correction system ) .
NetOwl utilizes artificial intelligence ( AI ) -based approaches , including natural language processing ( NLP ) , machine learning ( ML ) , and computational linguistics , to extract entities , relationships , and events ; to perform sentiment analysis ; to assign latitude / longitude to geographical references in text ; to translate names written in foreign languages ; and to perform name matching and identity resolution .
NetOwl Extractor performs entity extraction from unstructured texts using natural language processing ( NLP ) , machine learning ( ML ) , and computational linguistics .
NetOwl NameMatcher and EntityMatcher perform name matching and identity resolution for large multicultural and multilingual entity databases using machine learning ( ML ) and computational linguistics approaches .
Tanagra is a free suite of machine learning software for research and academic purposes
Tanagra supports several standard data mining tasks such as : Visualization , Descriptive statistics , Instance selection , feature selection , feature construction , regression , factor analysis , clustering , classification and association rule learning .
2016 saw the era of some major changes for Tune.pk. Digital media partnerships were done for two most prestigious university events in Lahore ; Bestival to Abdul Sattar Edhi for his efforts for the betterment of humanity .
This category contains articles on software , used for image processing
The CCS also organizes a Fall Meeting conference , coordinated with the annual meeting of the Psychonomic society .
Past honourees include Sara Shettleworth , Alex Kacelnik , Alan Kamil , Thomas Zentall , Edward Wasserman , Karen Hollis and Ron Weisman .
Beginning in 2008 CCS has sponsored a fall meeting in cooperation with the Psychonomic society .
Gradient descent , conjugate gradient method etc .
split Bregman method are special instances of proximal algorithms .
The application was initially developed at Georgia State University under NSF grant # 0641326 .
Both of these can be output as comma separated values files , allowing the user to use other software such as MATLAB or Excel for quantitative analysis .
This is known as generalized predictive coding 11 , with linear predictive coding as a special case .
T-distributed Stochastic Neighbor Embedding ( t-SNE ) is a machine learning algorithm for visualization developed by Laurens van der Maaten and Geoffrey Hinton .
While t-SNE plots often seem to display cluster analysis , the visual clusters can be influenced strongly by the chosen parameterization and therefore a good understanding of the parameters for t-SNE is necessary .
The bandwidth of the Gaussian kernel s math \ sigma _ i / math is set in such a way that the perplexity of the conditional distribution equals a predefined perplexity using the bisection method .
The minimization of the Kullback-Leibler divergence with respect to the points math \ mathbf { y } _ i / math is performed using gradient descent .
Two main implementations in R using MPI are Rmpi and pbdMPI of pbdR .
To discourage distracted driving , Siri is used extensively , providing voice turn-by-turn navigation guidance and voice-input for text messages .
The Open Automotive Alliance ' s Android Auto is a similar implementation used for Android devices .
K-SVD is a generalization of the k-means clustering method , and it works by iteratively alternating between sparse coding the input data based on the current dictionary , and updating the atoms in the dictionary to better fit the data .
The k-means clustering can be also regarded as a method of sparse representation .
That is , finding the best possible codebook to represent the data samples math \ { y _ i \ } ^ M _ { i = 1 } / math by Nearest neighbor search , by solving
The algorithm can be used in various applications such as object removal from images , reshuffling or moving contents of images , or retargeting or changing aspect ratios of images , optical flow estimation , or stereo correspondence .
The Kuwahara filter is a non-linear smoothing filter used in image processing for adaptive noise reduction .
The modified for color images Kuwahara filter effectively reducing noise without blurring the edges It is named after Michiyoshi Kuwahara , Ph.D. , who worked at Kyoto and Osaka Sangyo University Universities in Japan , developing early medical imaging of dynamic heart muscle in the 1970s and 80s .
The fact that any edges are preserved when smoothing makes it especially useful for feature extraction and segmentation and explains why it is used in medical imaging .
Active camera torsion can be used in computer vision for several purposes .
RoboTurk is the name of a humanoid robot designed and created by Dr. Davut Akdas and Dr. Sabri Bicakci at Balıkesir University in Turkey .
Approaches to solving this problem include , among others , polar cross correlation methods and iris pattern matching / Video tracking .
In the 2015 DARPA robotics finals Atlas from IHMC Robotics ( named Running Man ) came second behind the Korean team Kaist and their robot DRC-Hubo by a margin of six minutes , completing the entire course in a time of 50 : 26 .
" Gary Bradski , a specialist in artificial intelligence , declared that " a new species , " Robo sapiens " , are emerging .
icCube is implemented in Java and follows J2EE standards .
Stopklatka.pl is the oldest Poland film website
In 1984 , a group of researchers at the Delft University of Technology designed a braille reading tablet , in which a reading head with photosensitive cells was moved along set of rulers to capture braille text line-by-line .
The Neurophysiological Biomarker Toolbox ( NBT ) is an open source MATLAB toolbox for the computation and integration of neurophysiological biomarkers ( e.g. , biomarkers based on EEG or MEG recordings ) .
The World Bank ' s World Development Report 2019 shows that robotization creates jobs .
Unimate , the first industrial robot used in the manufacture of cars was introduced in order to improve health and safety within the manufacturing context .
Such software is mostly based on Natural Language Processing ( NLP ) and especially benefits graduate students .
The NER model is one of a number of methods for determining the accuracy of live subtitles in television broadcasts and events that are produced using speech recognition .
It is an alternative to the Word error rate ( Word Error Rate ) used in several countries .
This measurement process is already used for public television broadcasts in several European countries like Italy and Switzerland .
Other countries and authorities like Ofcom have already expressed an interest .
This is a table of some of the machine learning methods used on the database and their error rates , by type of classifier :
The IOB format ( short for inside , outside , beginning ) is a common tagging format for tagging tokens in a chunking task in computational linguistics ( ex .
IOB 's " one token per line " depends on the tokenization used , even though tokenization is not standardized in Natural language processing , and details of tokenization do not have to be entangled with the representations of NERs .
In computer vision , pattern recognition , and robotics , point set registration , also known as point cloud registration or scan matching , is the process of finding a spatial transformation ( " e.g. , " scaling , rotation and translation ) that aligns two point cloud s .
3D point clouds can also be generated from computer vision algorithms such as triangulation , bundle adjustment , and more recently , monocular image depth estimation using deep learning .
For 2D point set registration used in image processing and feature-based image registration , a point set may be 2D pixel coordinates obtained by feature extraction from an image , for example corner detection .
Point cloud registration has extensive applications in Self-driving car ,
The algorithm performs rigid registration in an iterative fashion by alternating in ( i ) given the transformation , finding nearest neighbor search in math \ mathcal { S } / math for every point in math \ mathcal { M } / math ; and ( ii ) given the correspondences , finding the best rigid transformation by solving the least squares problem ( ) .
Having established the cost function , the algorithm simply uses gradient descent to find the optimal transformation .
The kernel density estimates are sums of Gaussians and may therefore be represented as Gaussian mixture model s ( GMM ) .
The point set math \ mathcal { M } / math represents the Gaussian mixture model ( GMM ) centroids .
In the field of computer vision , any two images of the same planar surface in space are related by a homography ( assuming a pinhole camera model ) .
In deep learning , a convolutional neural network ( CNN , or ConvNet ) is a class of deep neural network s , most commonly applied to analyzing visual imagery .
CNNs are regularized versions of multilayer perceptron s .
Today , however , the CNN architecture is usually trained through backpropagation .
Yann LeCun et al .
This approach became a foundation of modern computer vision .
LeNet-5 , a pioneering 7-level convolutional network by Yann LeCun et al. in 1998 , ) digitized in 32x32 pixel images .
In 2010 , Dan Ciresan et al. at IDSIA showed that even deep standard neural networks with many layers can be quickly trained on GPU by supervised learning through the old method known as backpropagation .
Their network outperformed previous machine learning methods on the MNIST handwritten digits benchmark .
Subsequently , a similar GPU-based CNN by Alex Krizhevsky et al. won the ImageNet Large Scale Visual Recognition Challenge 2012 .
In the past , traditional multilayer perceptron ( MLP ) models have been used for image recognition .
For example , in CIFAR-10 , images are only of size 32 × 32 × 3 ( 32 wide , 32 high , 3 color channels ) , so a single fully connected neuron in a first hidden layer of a regular neural network would have 32 * 32 * 3 = 3,072 weights .
Together , these properties allow CNNs to achieve better generalization on Computer vision .
Pooling is an important component of convolutional neural networks for object detection based on Fast R-CNN { { cite arXiv
Sigmoid function Cross entropy loss is used for predicting " K " independent probability values in math 0,1 / math .
This makes the model combination practical , even for deep neural network s .
In 2012 an error rate of 0.23 percent on the MNIST database was reported .
AlexNet { { cite web
When applied to facial recognition system , CNNs achieved a large decrease in error rate .
The ImageNet Large Scale Visual Recognition Challenge is a benchmark in object classification and detection , with millions of images and hundreds of object classes .
CNNs have also been explored for natural language processing .
CNN models are effective for various NLP problems and achieved excellent results in semantic parsing ,
From 1999 to 2001 , David B. Fogel and Chellapilla published papers showing how a convolutional neural network could learn to play checker using co-evolution .
A couple of CNNs for choosing moves to try ( " policy network " ) and evaluating positions ( " value network " ) driving MCTS were used by AlphaGo , the first to beat the best human player at the time .
End-to-end training and prediction are common practice in computer vision .
However , human interpretable explanations are required for critical systems such as a self-driving car s .
A deep Q-network ( DQN ) is a type of deep learning model that combines a deep neural network with Q-learning , a form of reinforcement learning .
Anil K. Jain ( born 1948 ) is an Indian-American computer scientist and University Distinguished Professor in the Department of Computer Science & Engineering at Michigan State University , known for his contributions in the fields of pattern recognition , computer vision and biometric recognition .
" In 2007 , he received the W. Wallace McDowell Award , the highest technical honor awarded by the IEEE Computer Society , for his pioneering contributions to theory , technique , and practice of pattern recognition , computer vision , and biometric recognition systems .
He is a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery , IEEE , American Association for the Advancement of Science , IAPR and SPIE .
ISRA VISION AG is a manufacturer of solutions in the machine vision and industrial image processing sector .
ISRA VISION AG was founded in 1997 by Enis Ersü , a scientist in the field of robotics and sensor technology at the Technische Universität Darmstadt .
A live audience of about 200 high schoolers and their mentors watched the unveiling by David Price ( Regional Director of For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology ) , Loretta Bessette ( MIT Lincoln Labs and FIRST 's FTC game design team ) , Don Bossi ( President of FIRST ) , John Stuart ( PTC SVP of Global Academic Programs ) , and Lisa Freed ( iRobot STEM Outreach Coordinator ) .
Server and each connected client must create special type of neural network called Tree Parity Machine then compute outputs of their neural networks and exchange them in an iterative manner through the public channel .
The Robotics Toolbox is MATLAB toolbox software that supports research and teaching into arm-type and mobile robotics .
While the Robotics Toolbox is free software , it requires the proprietary MATLAB environment in order to execute .
A subset of functions have been ported to GNU Octave and Python .
The Toolbox requires MATLAB , commercial software from MathWorks , in order to operate .
A wireless network can be seen as a collection of ( information theory ) channels sharing space and some common frequency band .
Walter Daelemans ( born June 3 , 1960 ) is professor in computational linguistics at the University of Antwerp .
Daelemans pioneered the use of machine learning techniques , especially memory-based learning , in natural language processing in Europe in the early 1990s .
Google used Halide and TensorFlow for its Pixel 2 Pixel Visual Core .
Lise Getoor is a professor in the Computer Science Department ,
Her primary research interests are in machine learning and reasoning with uncertainty , applied to graphs and structured data .
She is a board member of the International Machine Learning Society , has been a member of AAAI Executive council , was PC co-chair of ICML 2011 , and has served as senior PC member for conferences including AAAI , ICML , IJCAI , ISWC , KDD , SIGMOD , UAI , VLDB , WSDM and WWW .
Getoor has multiple best paper awards , an NSF Career Award , and is an Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence ( AAAI ) Fellow .
This is a list of unmanned aerial vehicle s ( UAVs , or ' drones ' ) , of China .
This main list including miniature , micro ( MAVs ) , and unmanned combat air vehicle s ( UCAVs ) , unmanned blimp s , rotary-wing UAVs of China .
This is a list of unmanned UAVs of China from the main list above , which are designed to be launched amphibiously or from water .
This is a list of unmanned UAVs of China from the main list above , which are designed to be launched by various artilleries .
This is a list of unmanned experimental UAVs of China from the main list above .
This is a list of unmanned experimental UAVs of China from the main list above , and they are developed to explore the technologies necessary for aircraft carrier landing for ship-borne aircraft .
This is a list of unmanned experimental UAVs of China from the main list above , and they are developed to explore the technologies needed to deploy UAV from submarines .
This is a list of unmanned experimental UAVs of China from the main list above , and they are developed to explore the stealth technologies and associated flight control systems , particularly those of flying wing design .
This is a list of unmanned experimental UAVs of China from the main list above , and they are developed to explore the technologies of inflatable UAVs .
This is a list of fuel cell powered UAVs of China from the main list above .
This is a list of jet-powered ( including rocket-powered ) UAV s of China from the main list above .
This is a list of unmanned micro air vehicle s ( MAV ) of China from the main list above .
This is a list of UAVs with parasol wing of China from the main list above .
This is a list of UAVs of China controlled by smartphone s from the main list above .
This is a list of unmanned blimp s and airship s of China from the main list above .
This is a list of unmanned cyclogyro s of China from the main list above .
This is a list of unmanned helicopter s of China from the main list above , excluding unmanned coaxial helicopters , which are listed separately in their own subcategory .
This is a list of unmanned multirotor s of China from the main list above .
This is a list of unmanned tricopter s of China from the main list above .
This is a list of unmanned quadcopter s of China from the main list above .
This is a list of unmanned hexacopter s of China from the main list above .
This is a list of unmanned octocopter s of China from the main list above .
This is a list of V / STOL UAVs of China from the main list above .
This is a list of lift augmented ducted fan V / STOL UAVs of China from the main list above .
This is a list of tiltrotor V / STOL UAV s of China from the main list above .
Restorer and paper engineer Andrew Baron spent about 70 hours in 2007 repairing the Maillardet automaton to bring it back to working order .
In 2010 , Nova Spivack and Dominiek ter Heide co-founded Bottlenose with a team of web engineers.ref name = Inc
Bottlenose partnered with the nonprofit No Labels during the 2014 State of the Union Address to analyze Twitter conversations for bipartisanship .
Jerome Harold Friedman ( born December 29 , 1939 ) is an American statistician , consultant and Professor of Statistics at Stanford University , known for his contributions in the field of statistics and data mining .
Umoove headquarters are in Israel on Jerusalem " s Har Hotzvim .
The company also participated in the 2013 LeWeb conference in Paris , France , where innovative technology startups are showcased .
" They also noted that pioneering technologies have been known to fall short of expectations , citing Apple Inc " s Siri as an example .
In statistics and machine learning , the bias-variance tradeoff is the property of a set of predictive models whereby models with a lower bias in parameter estimation have a higher variance of the parameter estimates across samples , and vice versa .
The bias-variance dilemma or bias-variance problem is the conflict in trying to simultaneously minimize these two sources of error that prevent supervised learning algorithms from generalizing beyond their training set :
This tradeoff applies to all forms of supervised learning : classification , regression ( function fitting ) ,
We make " as well as possible " precise by measuring the mean squared error between mathy / math and math \ hat { f } ( x ; D ) / math : we want math ( y - \ hat { f } ( x ; D ) ) ^ 2 / math to be minimal , both for mathx _ 1 , \ dots , x _ n / math " and for points outside of our sample " .
Geman et al. argue that the bias-variance dilemma implies that abilities such as generic object recognition cannot be learned from scratch , but require a certain degree of " hard wiring " that is later tuned by experience .
It is developed by the Hungary software company memoQ Fordítástechnológiai Zrt .
memoQ has integrated machine translation and postediting into its translation workflow .
With the selection of appropriate conditions and a plug-in for machine translation , machine-generated translation units ( TUs ) will be inserted if no match is found in an active translation memory .
Real-time Analog Signal Processing ( R-ASP ) , as an alternative to Digital signal processing -based processing , might be defined as the manipulation of signals in their pristine analog form and in real time to realize specific operations enabling microwave or millimeter-wave and terahertz applications .
The exploding demand for higher spectral efficiency in radio has spurred a renewed interest in analog real-time components and systems beyond conventional purely digital signal processing techniques .
Since IBM proposed and realized the system of BLEU Papineni et al .
, ( 2002 ) as the automatic metric for Machine translation ( MT ) evaluation , many other methods have been proposed to revise or improve it , such as TER , METEOR , Banerjee and Lavie , ( 2005 ) etc .
LEPOR is designed with the factors of enhanced length penalty , precision , n-gram word order penalty , and recall .
He developed an early interest in computers and in 1964 attended a National Youth Science Camp in West Virginia where he learned to program a donated IBM computer .
Mercer joined IBM Research in the fall of 1972 and worked at the Thomas J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown , New York where he helped develop Brown clustering , a statistical machine translation technique as part of a speech recognition and translation research program led by Frederick Jelinek and Lalit Bahl .
Mercer has given $ 750,000 to the Club for Growth , $ 2 million to American Crossroads ,
Mercer joined the Koch brothers " conservative political donor network after the 2010 " Citizens United v. FEC " , but Mercer and his daughter , Rebekah Mercer , decided to establish their own political foundation .
Mercer has donated to the Heritage Foundation , the Cato Institute , the Media Research Center , Reclaim New York , and GAI .
Mercer was an activist in the campaign for the United Kingdom to end its membership of the European Union , also known as Brexit .
Andy Wigmore , communications director of Leave.EU , said that Mercer donated the services of Data analysis firm Cambridge Analytica to Nigel Farage , the head of the United Kingdom Independence Party ( UKIP ) .
In 2017 , David Magerman , a former Renaissance employee , alleged in a lawsuit that Mercer had said that African Americans were economically better off before the civil rights movement , that white racists no longer existed in the United States , and that the only racists remaining were black racists .
Rajko Tomović ( 1919-2001 ) was a Serbian scientist and he worked programs in robotics , information technologies in medicine , bio-medical engineering , rehabilitation engineering , artificial organ s , and other disciplines .
While at the University Rajko started programs in robotics , information technologies in medicine , bio-medical engineering , rehabilitation engineering , artificial organ s , and many other important disciplines that are reaching maturity today .
This so-called Belgrade 's hands now in the Museum of robotics in Boston , and the Museum of robotics in Moscow is the first machine designed for walking disability in 1972 .
Rajko Tomović spent time in the U.S. contributing greatly to the development of new views and methods in robotics , biomedical engineering , and computer sciences .
It is difficult to find a research institution involved in robotics , rehabilitation engineering , and computer sciences that in some way was not connected to Rajko Tomović .
He was one of the founders of the Yugoslav Committee for Electronics , Telecommunication , Automatics and Nuclear Sciences ( ETAN ) , Yugoslav Society for Computers , Yugoslav Society for Biomedical Engineering , Center for Multidisciplinary Studies of the University of Belgrade , Center for Strategic Social and Technical Planning in Novi Sad , and many other institutions .
He was member of various high-level state organizations and recognized member of the only political party in Yugoslavia .
Rajko Tomović was constantly involved in the organization of scientific and engineering meetings , summer schools , and workshops that took place in Yugoslavia .
Yugoslavian meetings became places where scientists from the Soviet Union and other eastern countries met with their colleagues from North America and Western Europe .
He wrote many invited chapters in the encyclopedia and other books dealing with robotics , biomedical engineering , and automatics .
Dr. Tomović was an active in the political life of Yugoslavia , yet mostly working as an advisor and consultant .
It was always interesting to see and talk to Rajko in the morning after he just finished another chapter or article written by some pioneer in mathematics or computer science , physics , philosophy , neuroscience , or some other visionary discipline .
His roots are from Bosnia and Herzegovina , village Dobromani , where he owned house , .
Qiang Yang was born in Beijing , China .
He is the son of Haishou Yang ( ) , an Astronomer in China .
Qiang Yang attended High School Attached to Tsinghua University in 1975 and then Peking University in 1978 .
He graduated from Peking University with a degree in astrophysics and went to the US through the CUSPEA exams in 1982 .
He obtained his master 's degree in astrophysics from the University of Maryland in 1985 , and another master 's degree in computer science at the same university in 1987 .
Automatic summarization consists in finding a set of images from a larger image collection that represents such collection .
Vicarious is an artificial intelligence company based in the San Francisco Bay Area , California .
They are using the theorized computational principles of the brain to build software that artificial general intelligence .
The company was founded in 2010 by D. Scott Phoenix and Dr. Dileep George .
The company launched in February 2011 with funding from Founders Fund , Dustin Moskovitz , Adam D 'Angelo ( former Facebook CTO and co-founder of Quora ) , Felicis Ventures , and Palantir co-founder Joe Lonsdale .
The round was led by Good Ventures ; Founders Fund , Open Field Capital and Zarco Investment Group also participated .
The round was led by such notables as Mark Zuckerberg , Elon Musk , Peter Thiel , Vinod Khosla , and Ashton Kutcher .
Vicarious is developing machine learning software based on the computational principles of the human brain .
Thanks to the architecture , the model has extreme data efficiency ( almost 900,000x more data efficient than traditional Deep learning ) .
Examples of acquisition functions include probability of improvement , expected improvement , Bayesian expected losses , upper confidence bounds ( UCB ) , Thompson sampling and hybrids of these.Matthew W. Hoffman , Eric Brochu , Nando de Freitas : Portfolio Allocation for Bayesian Optimization .
Storming Robots is Robotics and Technology Learning Lab based in Branchburg , New Jersey .
The programs at Storming Robots focus on educating grade school students in robotics with stress in software automation and algorithm s .
The center utilizes its own in-house expertise , along with curriculum designed by renowned robotics institutions , such as the Robotics Institute and the Robotics Educator Projects by NASA .
Team BEing from the Storming Robots won the First Place in Rescue A Primary SuperTeam World Champion along with its alliance team from Uruguay .
Although Storming Robots was invited to participate in the World Tournament in Singapore , due to the high cost and inconvenient timing of the trip , the team declined .
He was appointed professor at the Technical University of Munich in 1891 , succeeding his teacher , A. Voss , at the Department of Analytical Geometry , Differential and Integral Calculus ( remaining at the university for forty years until 1931 ) .
In 1897 Finsterwalder addressed the German Mathematical Society , and he described some of the results of projective geometry he was applying to photogrammetry.Finsterwalder , S. ( 1897 ) Die geometrischen Grundlagen der Photogrammetrie .
The article , which he submitted in August 1902 , more than a year before the Wright brothers achieved powered flight is thus prescient in its insights into the mathematics behind this new field of engineering .
During the past decade , genetic algorithm has been successfully used to digital filter design .
This approach still suffers from many problems of normal statistical machine translation , namely that the accuracy of the translation will depend heavily on the similarity of the input text to the text of the training corpus .
As a result , this technique has had the most success in domain-specific applications , and has the same difficulties with domain adaptation as many statistical machine translation systems.Chang , J. and Su , K. 1997 .
The most common technique used in multi-pass machine translation systems is to Pre-processing the input with a rule-based machine translation system .
The output of the rule-based pre-processor is passed to a statistical machine translation system , which produces the final output .
François Fages ( August 23 , 1959 ) is a France computer scientist known for contributions in the areas of unification theory , rule-based modelling , logic programming , computational biology and systems biology .
Since 1999 , he is a senior researcher at the Institut national de recherche en informatique et en automatique ( INRIA ) , the French national research institute on computer science and control .. " CORDIS " .
Google Brain is a deep learning artificial intelligence research team at Google .
The so-called " Google Brain " project began in 2011 as a part-time research collaboration between Google Fellow Jeff Dean , Google Researcher Greg Corrado , and Stanford University professor Andrew Ng .
In March 2013 , Google hired Geoffrey Hinton , a leading researcher in the deep learning field , and acquired the company DNNResearch Inc. headed by Hinton .
In it , two sets of artificial intelligence devised their own cryptographic algorithms to protect their communications from another AI , which at the same time aimed at evolving its own system to crack the AI-generated encryption .
The Google Brain project contributed to Google Translate .
Google Brain was initially established by Google Fellow Jeff Dean and visiting Stanford professor Andrew Ng .
Proximal gradient method s are applicable in a wide variety of scenarios for solving convex optimization problems of the form
The company was developed from a joint research project with Ph.D. and UC Berkeley Professor Joe Hellerstein , Ph.D. and University of Washington and former Stanford professor Jeffrey Heer , and Stanford Ph.D. Sean Kandel .
The WGCNA method was developed by Steve Horvath , a professor of human genetics at the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA and of biostatistics at the UCLA Fielding School of Public Health and his colleagues at UCLA , and ( former ) lab members ( in particular Peter Langfelder , Bin Zhang , Jun Dong ) .
The WGCNA package is available from the Comprehensive R Archive Network ( CRAN ) , the standard repository for
Mitsuku is a chatbot created from AIML technology by Steve Worswick .
She went on to receive her master 's and doctorate degrees from the University of Chicago Divinity School in June 1979 and December 1983 , respectively .
Taves married Raymond Paloutzian on 29 December 2007 , in Santa Barbara.Claremont Graduate University , School of Behavioral and Organizational Sciences , , " Faculty Student and Alumni Milestones , " page 15 ( accessed 4 July 2014 ) .
No matter whether active sonar or passive sonar , the information included in the reflected signal can not be used without technical signal processing .
The discrete cosine transform ( DCT ) is used in a wide range of applications such as data compression , feature extraction , Image reconstruction , multi-frame detection and so on .
The analysis of distributions is fundamental in machine learning and statistics , and many algorithms in these fields rely on information theoretic approaches such as entropy , mutual information , or Kullback-Leibler divergence .
In the hidden Markov model ( HMM ) , two key quantities of interest are the transition probabilities between hidden states math P ( S ^ t \ mid S ^ { t-1 } ) / math and the emission probabilities mathP ( O ^ t \ mid S ^ t ) / math for observations .
The support measure machine ( SMM ) is a generalization of the support vector machine ( SVM ) in which the training examples are probability distributions paired with labels math \ { P _ i , y _ i \ } _ { i = 1 } ^ n , \ y _ i \ in \ { + 1 , -1 \ } / math.ref name = " SMM " K. Muandet , K. Fukumizu , F. Dinuzzo , B. Schölkopf .
Many important machine learning and statistical tasks fit into this framework , including multi-instance learning , and point estimation problems without analytical solution ( such as hyperparameter or entropy estimation ) .
Helmstedt ( ) is a railway station located in Helmstedt , Germany .
In machine learning , a deep belief network ( DBN ) is a generative graphical model , or alternatively a class of deep learning neural network , composed of multiple layers of latent variables ( " hidden units " ) , with connections between the layers but not between units within each layer .
When trained on a set of examples Unsupervised learning , a DBN can learn to probabilistically reconstruct its inputs .
The layers then act as Feature learning s .
The training method for RBMs proposed by Geoffrey Hinton for use with training " Product of Expert " models is called contrastive divergence ( CD ) .math
The result was redirect to Benin .
Since there is no language called " Beninese , " there is nothing to disambiguate ; all topics on the page are different ways to refer to the clear primary topic of the title , Benin .
In machine learning , the kernel perceptron is a variant of the popular perceptron learning algorithm that can learn kernel machines , i.e. non-linear classifiers that employ a kernel function to compute the similarity of unseen samples to training samples .
" It iteratively improves a model by running it on training samples , then updating the model whenever it finds it has made an incorrect classification with respect to a supervised learning signal .
Speakers included Dean Kamen and Woodie Flowers .
The Quickprop algorithm is an implementation of the error backpropagation algorithm , but the network can behave chaotically during the learning phase due to large step sizes .
mlpack is a machine learning software library for C + + , built on top of the Armadillo library .
Template classes for GRU , LSTM structures are available , thus the library also supports Recurrent neural network .
There are bindings to R and Python .
Inductive programming ( IP ) is a special area of automatic programming , covering research from artificial intelligence and programming , which addresses machine learning of typically declarative ( logic or functional ) and often recursive programs from incomplete specifications , such as input / output examples or constraints .
In other cases , inductive programming is seen as a more general area where any declarative programming or representation language can be used and we may even have some degree of error in the examples , as in general machine learning , the more specific area of structure mining or the area of symbolic artificial intelligence .
The early work in grammar induction ( also known as grammatical inference ) is related to inductive programming , as rewriting systems or logic programs can be used to represent production rules .
ATC is a branch of natural language processing , which in turn is a branch of artificial intelligence .
Other approaches use machine learning techniques such as Bayesian inferencing and Artificial Neural Networks .
ATC systems are a key component of ontology learning ( also known as automatic ontology construction ) , and have been used to automatically generate large ontologies for domains such as insurance and finance .
They have also been used to enhance existing large networks such as Wordnet to make them more complete and consistent .
Qloo ( pronounced " clue " ) is a company that uses artificial intelligence ( AI ) to understand taste and cultural correlations .
It received funding from Leonardo DiCaprio , Elton John , Barry Sternlicht , Pierre Lagrange and others .
Qloo establishes consumer preference correlations via machine learning across data spanning cultural domains including music , film , television , dining , nightlife , fashion , books and travel .
The recommender system uses AI to predict correlations for further applications .
DeepMind Technologies is a United Kingdom artificial intelligence company founded in September 2010 , and acquired by Google and the United States .
The company has created a neural network that learns how to play video games in a fashion similar to that of humans ,
The company made headlines in 2016 after its AlphaGo program beat a human professional Go player Lee Sedol , the world champion , in a five-game match , which was the subject of a documentary film .
The start-up was founded by Demis Hassabis , Shane Legg and Mustafa Suleyman in 2010 .
To date , the company has published research on computer systems that are able to play games , and developing these systems , ranging from strategy games such as Go
Technically it uses deep learning on a convolutional neural network , with a novel form of Q-learning , a form of model-free reinforcement learning .
In October 2015 , a computer Go program called AlphaGo , developed by DeepMind , beat the European Go champion Fan Hui , a 2 dan ( out of 9 dan possible ) professional , five to zero .
AlphaGo technology was developed based on the deep reinforcement learning approach .
The policy network trained via supervised learning , and was subsequently refined by policy-gradient reinforcement learning .
Also in 2016 , DeepMind introduced WaveNet , a text-to-speech system .
In July 2016 , a collaboration between DeepMind and Moorfields Eye Hospital was announced to develop AI applications for healthcare .
In August 2016 , a research programme with University College Hospital was announced with the aim of developing an algorithm that can automatically differentiate between healthy and cancerous tissues in head and neck areas .
In November 2017 , DeepMind announced a research partnership with the Cancer Research UK Centre at Imperial College London with the goal of improving breast cancer detection by applying machine learning to mammography .
In May 2017 , " Sky News " published a leaked letter from the National Data Guardian , Dame Fiona Caldicott , revealing that in her " considered opinion " the data-sharing agreement between DeepMind and the Royal Free took place on an " inappropriate legal basis .
It is trained in an Unsupervised learning manner from the observations that the agent makes .
" The transition function is trained in a supervised learning manner , to predict the next beliefs from the current ones .
The planning module uses an evolutionary algorithm to evolve a satisficing plan .
It is trained by reinforcement learning from a human teacher .
Gravity was a start up Content Personalization Company based out of Los Angeles , United States .
This is a timeline of machine translation .
( formerly Orbotix ) is an American consumer robotics and toy company based in Boulder , Colorado .
William John Barry ( born 1943 in Ireland ) is a phonetician in Germany .
He came to Germany in his early years and was mainly educated at the University of Kiel by the German phonetician Klaus J. Kohler .
In 1992 , he was appointed to the Chair of Phonetics at Saarland University .
His principal research areas were speech synthesis , rhythm and segmental structures , the application of linguistics to questions of pronunciation learning , speech-language pathology and speech technology in general .
Investors included Horizons Ventures ( the investment firm of Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-Shing ) , and Ynon Kreiz , the former chairman and CEO of the Endemol Group .
The Quantum Artificial Intelligence Lab ( also called the Quantum AI Lab or QuAIL ) is a joint initiative of NASA , Universities Space Research Association , and Google ( specifically , Google Research ) whose goal is to pioneer research on how quantum computing might help with machine learning and other difficult computer science problems .
Rule-engineering and machine learning approaches to temporal annotation have both been successful , though achieving high performance in temporal relation typing remains a difficult task .
Successful temporal annotation enables systems to find out when facts asserted in texts are true , to build timelines , processing social media , and clinical text mining .
Text mining computer programs are available from many commercial and open source companies and sources .
The project is a partnership between the University of Sheffield as part of GATE , the University of Warwick , King 's College London , Saarland University in Germany and MODUL University Vienna .
It used computer vision to enable mobile device s , such as smartphone s and tablets , to detect their position relative to the world around them without using GPS or other external signals .
Applications on mobile devices use Tango 's C and Java APIs to access this data in real time .
Several hundred Peanut devices were distributed to early-access partners including university researchers in computer vision and robotics , as well as application developers and technology startups .
In creating Project Tango , Google collaborated with developers in nine countries and several organizations including Bosch , Bsquare , CompalComm , ETH Zurich , Flyby Media , George Washington University , MMSolutions , Movidius , University of Minnesota MARS Lab , SagivTech .
This model has the same general form as a hidden Markov model , reduced to bigram probabilities in Brown 's solution to the problem .
The approach proposed by Brown et al. is a greedy algorithm .
DADiSP is used in the study of signal processing ,
Cortana can set reminders , recognize natural voices without the requirement for keyboard input , and question answering using information and web results from the Bing search engine .
When asked for a prediction , Cortana correctly predicted the winners of the first 14 matches of the football 2014 FIFA World Cup knockout stage , including the semi-finals , before it incorrectly picked Brazil over the Netherlands in the third place play-off match ; this streak topped Paul the Octopus who correctly predicted all 7 of Germany ' s 2010 FIFA World Cup matches as well as the Final .
The United States ( English ) localised version of Cortana is voiced by Jen Taylor , the voice actress who voices Cortana , the namesake of the virtual assistant , in the Halo video game series .
The natural language processing capabilities of Cortana are derived from Tellme Networks ( bought by Microsoft in 2007 ) and are coupled with a Semantic search database called Satori .
Southern Alaska , Canada , United States & Mexico .
NSA Bethesda is responsible for base operational support for its major tenant , the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center .
The software implements any number of layers of non-linear processing units for supervised learning .
OpenNN contains data mining algorithms as a bundle of functions .
The development started in 2003 at the International Center for Numerical Methods in Engineering , within the research project funded by the European Union called RAMFLOOD ( Risk Assessment and Management of FLOODs ) .
OpenNN is a general purpose artificial intelligence software package .
Spark and its RDDs were developed in 2012 in response to limitations in the MapReduce cluster computing paradigm , which forces a particular linear dataflow structure on distributed programs : MapReduce programs read input data from disk , map a function across the data , reduce the results of the map , and store reduction results on disk .
Among the class of iterative algorithms are the training algorithms for machine learning systems , which formed the initial impetus for developing Apache Spark .
Spark SQL provides a domain-specific language ( DSL ) to manipulate DataFrames in Scala , Java , or Python .
Spark MLlib is a distributed machine-learning framework on top of Spark Core that , due in large part to the distributed memory-based Spark architecture , is as much as nine times as fast as the disk-based implementation used by Apache Mahout ( according to benchmarks done by the MLlib developers against the Linear regression ( ALS ) implementations , and before Mahout itself gained a Spark interface ) , and scales better than Vowpal Wabbit .
In machine learning , Platt scaling or Platt calibration is a way of transforming the outputs of a classification model into a probability distribution over classes .
Platt scaling works by fitting a logistic regression model to a classifier 's scores .
Consider the problem of binary classification : for inputs , i.e. a classification that not only gives an answer , but also a degree of certainty about the answer .
Platt scaling has been shown to be effective for SVMs as well as other types of classification models , including boosted models and even naive Bayes classifier s , which produce distorted probability distributions .
It is particularly effective for max-margin methods such as SVMs and boosted trees , which show sigmoidal distortions in their predicted probabilities , but has less of an effect with well- calibrated models such as logistic regression , multilayer perceptron s , and random forest s .
It uses artificial neural network machine learning methods in its algorithm .
Approached from the regularization perspective , parameter tuning is similar to the scalar-valued case and can generally be accomplished with cross validation .
Training of the network involves a pre-training stage accomplished in a greedy algorithm layer-wise manner , similar to other deep belief networks .
The application uses natural language understanding to answer a user 's questions on a variety of topics , make recommendations and operate the user 's device .
The Software was originally designed to compete with Apple 's Siri Virtual Assistant and to bring the functionality to Android devices , which are incompatible with Siri .
In machine learning , a probabilistic classifier is a classifier that is able to predict , given an observation of an input , a probability distribution over a set of classes , rather than only outputting the most likely class that the observation should belong to .
Some classification models , such as naive Bayes classifier , logistic regression and multilayer perceptron s ( when trained under an appropriate loss function ) are naturally probabilistic .
Other models such as support vector machine s are not , but methods exist to turn them into probabilistic classifiers .
Some models , such as logistic regression , are conditionally trained : they optimize the conditional probability math \ Pr ( Y \ vert X ) / math directly on a training set ( see empirical risk minimization ) .
Other classifiers , such as naive Bayes , are trained generatively : at training time , the class-conditional distribution math \ Pr ( X \ vert Y ) / math and the class prior math \ Pr ( Y ) / math are found , and the conditional distribution math \ Pr ( Y \ vert X ) / math is derived using Bayes ' rule .
Not all classification models are naturally probabilistic , and some that are , notably naive Bayes classifiers , decision tree learning and boosting methods , produce distorted class probability distributions .
For the binary classification case , a common approach is to apply Platt scaling , which learns a logistic regression model on the scores .
In the multiclass classification case , one can use a reduction to binary tasks , followed by univariate calibration with an algorithm as described above and further application of the pairwise coupling algorithm by Hastie and Tibshirani .
Commonly used loss functions for probabilistic classification include log loss and the Brier score between the predicted and the true probability distributions .
He spent most of his career at HP Labs .
Flipora is a personalized content Recommender system that recommends web content to users based on their interests and web activity .
Torch is an open-source machine learning library ,
The codenn / code package is used for building neural network s .
Modules have a codeforward ( ) / code and codebackward ( ) / code method that allow them to feedforward and backpropagation , respectively .
What follows is an example use-case for building a multilayer perceptron using Modules :
Common criteria are the Mean Squared Error criterion implemented in codeMSECriterion / code and the cross-entropy criterion implemented in codeClassNLLCriterion / code .
It also has codeStochasticGradient / code class for training a neural network using Stochastic gradient descent , although the codeoptim / code package provides much more options in this respect , like momentum and weight decay regularization .
Ray Solomonoff developed algorithmic probability which gave an explanation for what randomness is and how patterns in the data may be represented by computer programs , that give shorter representations of the data circa 1964 .
Chris Wallace and D. M. Boulton developed minimum message length circa 1968 .
These methods allow information theory to be related to probability , in a way that can be compared to the application of Bayes ' theorem , but which give a source and explanation for the role of prior probabilities .
Marcus Hutter combined decision theory with the work of Ray Solomonoff and Andrey Kolmogorov to give a theory for the Pareto optimal behavior for an Intelligent agent , circa 1998 .
Processing speed and combinatorial explosion remain the primary limiting factors for artificial intelligence .
In this case optimal decision theory as in Marcus Hutter Universal Artificial Intelligence will give Pareto optimal performance for the agent .
See also information theory .
It is the object oriented model , in the non computer science sense .
Computer vision uses this mapping to construct 3D images from stereo image pairs .
Cognitive computing ( CC ) describes technology platforms that , broadly speaking , are based on the scientific disciplines of artificial intelligence and signal processing .
These platforms encompass machine learning , reasoning , natural language processing , speech recognition and Computer vision ( object recognition ) , human-computer interaction , Dialog system and narrative generation , among other technologies.Augmented intelligence , helping humans make smarter decisions .
The powers of Cognitive Computing and Artificial intelligence hold the potential to affect almost every task that humans are capable of performing .
Based in Fort Collins , Colorado , it also has employees in Mexico and Brazil .
3DFlow , srl is an Italian software house operating in the field of Computer Vision and Image Processing .
The spectrum is of particular interest when pulses are subject to signal processing .
In addition , a number of mathematical software programs , such as Mathcad , MATLAB and Mathematica have built-in routines to evaluate the integrals , either as standard functions or in extension packages .
The calculations can be carried out by means of a straightforward computer algorithm , and in proprietary CAD programs such as Mathcad , MATLAB , and Mathematica .
Similar problems arise in digital signal processing where the spectral shaping is provided by a window function , a process sometimes called apodization .
The TextGraphs Workshop series is a series of regular academic workshop s intended to encourage the synergy between the fields of natural language processing ( NLP ) and graph theory .
The mix between the two started small , with graph theoretical framework providing efficient and elegant solutions for NLP applications that focused on single documents for part-of-speech tagging , word sense disambiguation and semantic role labelling , got progressively larger with ontology learning and information extraction from large text collections .
The journal is published by Springer Science + Business Media on behalf of the Psychonomic Society and the editor-in-chief is Marie T. Banich ( University of Colorado , Boulder ) .
Michael Batty was appointed the first director and initially held a joint appointment as Professor of Spatial Analysis and Planning in the Departments of Geography and The Bartlett School of Planning .
Their work on transport and movement has included Transport for London " s Oyster card data , , " Planning Resource " , 19 June 2009
Aside from an essay regarding Goodwin 's conception by Margaret Boden in 1980 , the next appearance of " cognitive biology " as a phrase in the literature came in 1986 from a professor of biochemistry , Ladislav Kováč .
The group 's choice of name , as they explain on a separate webpage , might have been " embodied cognition " This option perpetuates a bias established by the original interdisciplinary grouping that formed the cognitive sciences in the 1970s : artificial intelligence , linguistics , neuroscience , philosophy , anthropology , and psychology .
If the content can only be recruited from " cognitive science " , then cognitive biology would seem limited to a selection of items in the main set of sciences included by the interdisciplinary concept - cognitive psychology , artificial intelligence , linguistics , philosophy , neuroscience , and cognitive anthropology .Named on page 143 in Miller , George A. " The cognitive revolution : a historical perspective .
It is a conversational agent that utilizes natural language processing ( NLP ) , information retrieval ( IR ) and Machine learning .
The university researchers used information provided by anti-pedophilia activist organization Perverted-Justice , including examples of online encounters and conversations with sexual predators , to supplement the program 's artificial intelligence system .
The Lely Juno family is a family of robot series produced by Excel Dairy Services , headquartered in the Netherlands .
ACM Fellow ( 2015 ) br Association for Computational Linguistics Fellow ( 2011 ) br AAAI Fellow ( 1994 ) br International Speech Communication Association Fellow ( 2011 ) br Honorary Doctorate ( Hedersdoktor ) KTH Royal Institute of Technology ( 2007 ) br Columbia Engineering School Alumni Association Distinguished Faculty Teaching award ( 2009 ) br IEEE James L. Flanagan Speech and Audio Processing Award ( 2011 ) br ISCA Medal for Scientific Achievement ( 2011 )
Julia Hirschberg is an American computer scientist noted for her research on computational linguistics and natural language processing .
In 2002 , she joined the Columbia University faculty as a Professor in the Department of Computer Science .
She has served on numerous technical boards and editorial committees , and is now on the Computing Research Association ' s ( CRA ) Board of Directors and serves as co-chair of CRA-W .
Oriented FAST and rotated BRIEF ( ORB ) is a fast robust local feature detector , first presented by Ethan Rublee et al. in 2011 , that can be used in computer vision tasks like object recognition or 3D reconstruction .
The system supports both touchscreen and button-controlled head unit displays , although hands-free operation through Speech recognition is encouraged to minimize driving distraction .
Android Auto is part of the Open Automotive Alliance that was announced on June 25 , 2014 , and is a joint effort between 28 automobile manufacturers , with Nvidia as tech supplier .
In May 2019 , Italy filed an antitrust complaint targeting Android Auto , citing that a Google policy of only allowing third-party media and messaging apps on the platform prevented Enel from offering an app for locating vehicle charging stations .
Eclipse Deeplearning4j is a deep learning programming library written for Java and the Java virtual machine ( JVM )
Deeplearning4j relies on the widely used programming language Java , though it is compatible with Clojure and includes a Scala application programming interface ( API ) .
Deeplearning4j includes an n-dimensional array class using ND4J that allows scientific computing in Java and Scala , similar to the functions that NumPy provides to Python .
Deeplearning4j includes implementations of term frequency-inverse document frequency ( tf-idf ) , deep learning , and Mikolov 's word2vec algorithm , ( t-SNE ) for word-cloud visualizations .
These can be arranged into a 2 × 2 contingency table ( confusion matrix ) , conventionally with the test result on the vertical axis and the actual condition on the horizontal axis .
Sensitivity or True Positive Rate ( TPR ) , also known as recall , is the proportion of people that tested positive and are positive ( True Positive , TP ) of all the people that actually are positive ( Condition Positive , CP = TP + FN ) .
In addition to sensitivity and specificity , the performance of a binary classification test can be measured with positive predictive value ( PPV ) , also known as precision , and negative predictive value ( NPV ) .
Perhaps the simplest statistic is accuracy or Fraction Correct ( FC ) , which measures the fraction of all instances that are correctly categorized ; it is the ratio of the number of correct classifications to the total number of correct or incorrect classifications : ( TP + TN ) / Total Population = ( TP + TN ) / ( TP + TN + FP + FN ) .
An F-score is a combination of the precision and the recall , providing a single score .
Note , however , that the F-scores do not take the true negative rate into account , and are more suited to information retrieval and information extraction evaluation where the true negatives are innumerable .
The workerbot is a trademark , which was developed by the pi4 _ robotics GmbH to describe an industrial robot , which was modeled with its possibilities of movement and its sensory abilities of a human .
The industrial robot has two arms with seven degrees of freedom .
This industrial robot has been developed within the EU funded project PISA ( " Flexible Assembly Systems through Workplace-Sharing and Time-Sharing Human-Machine Cooperation " ) .
The aim is to enable the use of highly flexible industrial robot s manufacturing companies within the European Union cost production and to prevent the migration to low-wage countries .
Digital Domain chose not to use motion capture for Mya 's movements as they believed it would constrain the character too much .
To visually illustate the second season cast of " Temperatures Rising " ; with one exception ( Cleavon Little ) the cast was completely different from the fist season
The sample complexity of a machine learning algorithm represents the number of training-samples that it needs in order to successfully learn a target function .
In addition to the supervised learning setting , sample complexity is relevant to semi-supervised learning problems including active learning ,
The false positive rate is the proportion of all negatives that still yield positive test outcomes , i.e. , the conditional probability of a positive test result given an event that was not present .
Formlabs received early seed funding from investors including Mitch Kapor , Joi Ito , and Eric Schmidt " s Innovation Endeavors .
In May 2016 , Formlabs acquired online 3D printing community and marketplace Pinshape .
Richard Hartley is an Australian computer scientist and a professor at the Australian National University , where he is head of the Computer Vision group in the Research School of Engineering .
In 1971 Hartley received a BSc degree from the Australian National University followed by MSc ( 1972 ) and PhD ( 1976 ) degrees in mathematics from the University of Toronto .
The library is written 100 % in the Java language .
Data exploration can also require manual scripting and queries into the data ( e.g. using languages such as SQL or R ) or using spreadsheet s or similar tools to view the raw data .
This area of data exploration has become an area of interest in the field of machine learning .
Many common patterns include regression and classification or Cluster analysis , but there are many possible patterns and algorithms that can be applied to data via machine learning .
The 1997 RoboCup 2D Soccer Simulation League was the first RoboCup competition promoted in conjunction with International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence held in Nagoya , Japan , from 23 to 29 August 1997 .
Hanan Samet is a Computer Science researcher and Distinguished University Professor at the University of Maryland ' s Computer Science Department , which is part of the University of Maryland College of Computer , Mathematical , and Natural Sciences .
machine learning , the vanishing gradient problem is a difficulty found in training artificial neural network s with Stochastic gradient descent and backpropagation .
Back-propagation allowed researchers to train Supervised learning deep artificial neural networks from scratch , initially with little success .
Sepp Hochreiter ' s diploma thesis of 1991 Sepp Hochreiter .
Sepp Hochreiter , Y. Bengio , P. Frasconi , and Jürgen Schmidhuber .
IEEE Press , 2001. formally identified the reason for this failure in the " vanishing gradient problem , " which not only affects Deep learning feedforward networks , The latter are trained by unfolding them into very deep feedforward networks , where a new layer is created for each time step of an input sequence processed by the network .
One is Jürgen Schmidhuber ' s multi-level hierarchy of networks ( 1992 ) pre-trained one level at a time through unsupervised learning , fine-tuned through backpropagation .
Then the network is trained further by supervised backpropagation to classify labeled data .
Another technique particularly used for recurrent neural network s is the long short-term memory ( LSTM ) network of 1997 by Sepp Hochreiter & Jürgen Schmidhuber .
Behnke relied only on the sign of the gradient ( Rprop ) when training his Neural Abstraction Pyramid
Neural networks can also be optimized by using a universal search algorithm on the space of neural network 's weights , e.g. , random guess or more systematically genetic algorithm .
Laguerre formula can be useful in computer vision , since the absolute conic has an image on the retinal plane which is invariant under camera displacements , and the cross ratio of four collinear points is the same for their images on the retinal plane .
He is known for his research in computer vision and is the director of the Caltech Computational Vision Group .
Perona obtained his D.Eng. in electrical engineering " cum laude " from the University of Padua in 1985 and completed his Ph.D. at the University of California , Berkeley in 1990 .
Perona pioneered the study of visual categorization ( including the publication of the Caltech 101 dataset ) for which he was awarded the Longuet-Higgins Prize in 2013 .
In 2013 , a team at Google led by Tomas Mikolov created word2vec , a word embedding toolkit which can train vector space models faster than the previous approaches ..
However , tasks involving named entity recognition and sentiment analysis seem not to benefit from a multiple vector representation .
Some researchers hope that these can improve the quality of machine translation .
Software for training and using word embeddings includes Tomas Mikolov 's Word2vec , Stanford University 's GloVe ,
Manatee is written in C + + and offers an API for a number of other programming languages including Python , Java , Perl and Ruby .
Recently , it was rewritten into Go for faster processing of corpus queries .
It is written in Python .
It is also written in Python .
Musical examples ranging from Beethoven to The Beatles , Busta Rhymes to Bach , are used to support the book 's propositions .
Using cutting-edge scientific research from his music cognition lab at McGill University ; his own experiences in the music business ; and interviews with musicians such as Sting and David Byrne , as well as conductors , anthropologists , and evolutionary biologists .
In 1981 he received his MS at the Tel Aviv University , Leon Recanati Graduate School of Business Administration , and in 1988 his PhD in Operations Research from the Weizmann Institute of Science under supervision of Amir Pnueli and Shimon Ullman .
Averbis GmbH provides text analytics and text mining software to transform unstructured text into actionable information .
It was founded in 2007 by IT experts after years of relevant scientific experience in the field of text mining and multilingual information retrieval .
Different from other existing corpora , LIVAC has adopted a rigorous and regular as well as " Windows " approach in processing and filtering massive media texts from representative Chinese speech communities such as Hong Kong , Macau , Taipei , Singapore , Shanghai , Beijing , as well as Guangzhou , and Shenzhen .Tsou , Benjamin ; Lai , Tom ; Chan , Samuel ; and Wang , William S.-Y. ( Eds ) .
AUTINDEX is a commercial text mining software package based on sophisticated linguistics.Ripplinger , Bärbel 2001 : Das Indexierungssystem AUTINDEX , in GLDV Tagung , GiessenPaul Schmidt , Mahmoud Gindiyeh & Gintare Grigonyte , 2009 : Language Technology for Information Systems .
" AUTINDEX " , resulting from research in information extraction , Paul Schmidt , Thomas Bähr & Dr.-Ing. Jens Biesterfeld & Thomas Risse & Kerstin Denecke & Claudiu Firan , 2008 : LINSearch .
IAI is an institute affiliated to Saarland University in Saarbrücken , Germany .
Together with AUTINDEX a number of additional software comes along such as an integration with Apache Solr / Lucene to provide a complete information retrieval environment , a classification and categorisation system on the basis of a machine learning software that assigns domains to the document , Mahmoud Gindiyeh : Anwendung wahrscheinlichkeitstheoretischer Methoden in der linguistischen Informationsverarbeitung , Logos Verlag , Berlin , 2013. and a system for searching with semantically similar terms that are collected in so called tag clouds .
Action model learning ( sometimes abbreviated action learning ) is an area of machine learning concerned with creation and modification of software agent ' s knowledge about " effects " and " preconditions " of the " actions " that can be executed within its " environment " .
Thus , learning action models differs from reinforcement learning .
Recent action learning methods take various approaches and employ a wide variety of tools from different areas of artificial intelligence and computational logic .
possible action models. the action model learning was studied as an extension of reinforcement learning .
Most action learning research papers are published in journals and conferences focused on artificial intelligence in general ( e.g. Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research ( JAIR ) , Artificial Intelligence , Applied Artificial Intelligence ( AAI ) or AAAI conferences ) .
Terzopoulos was educated at McGill University He went on to study at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , where he was awarded a PhD in artificial intelligence in 1984 for research on the computation of visible-surface representations , advised by Shimon Ullman
Following his PhD , Terzopoulos was a research scientist at the MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory ( CSAIL ) , a program leader at Schlumberger research centres in California and Texas , Professor of Computer Science and Electrical & Computer Engineering at the Dynamic Graphics Project of University of Toronto , and Professor of Computer Science and Mathematics at the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences of New York University where he held a Lucy and Henry Moses Endowed Professorship in Science .
Terzopoulos has also held adjunct , visiting , consultancy , and part-time positions at Schlumberger , IBM , Digital Equipment Corporation , Intel , Bell-Northern Research , the National Research Council of Canada , the University of Ontario Institute of Technology , and Paris Dauphine University .
Terzopoulos has served on advisory committees at DARPA ( United States ) , the National Science Foundation ( United States ) , the National Institutes of Health ( United States ) , the National Academies , the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council ( Canada ) , and the Max Planck Institute for Informatics .
In 2020 , the IEEE Computer Society awarded Terzopoulos its Computer Pioneer Award " for a leading role in developing computer vision , computer graphics , and medical imaging through pioneering research that has helped unify these fields and has impacted related disciplines within and beyond computer science .
In 2013 , at the International Conference on Computer Vision , Terzopoulos was awarded a Helmholtz Prize for his 1987 ICCV paper with Kass and Witkin on active contour model s .
In 2007 , at the International Conference on Computer Vision , Terzopoulos was awarded the inaugural IEEE PAMI Computer Vision Distinguished Researcher Award for " pioneering and sustained research on deformable models and their applications .
In 2006 , at the 78th Academy Awards , Terzopoulos won an Academy Award for Technical Achievement from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences with John Platt for " their pioneering work in physically-based computer-generated techniques used to simulate realistic cloth in motion pictures .
This technique is a widely used approach for speaker adaptation in Hidden Markov model -based speech recognition ,
Feature transform of fMLLR can be easily computed with the open source speech tool Kaldi , the Kaldi script uses the standard estimation scheme described in Appendix B of the original paper , in particular the section Appendix B.1 " Direct method over rows .
Where Multilayer perceptron ( multi-layer perceptron ) serves as a simple baseline , on the other hand Recurrent neural network , Long short-term memory , and GRU are all well known recurrent models .
The name " Salvius " dates back to the time of the Roman Empire , however , it was chosen for this robot because of its similarity to the word " salvage .
Salvius is intended to be a resource for developers to experiment with machine learning and kinematic applications for humanoid robots .
For this purpose there are various related techniques , including : principal component analysis , linear discriminant analysis , canonical correlation analysis , discrete cosine transform , random projection , etc .
Quasiorthogonality of large random sets is important for methods of random approximation in machine learning .
Vaa3D was created in 2007 to tackle the large-scale brain mapping project at Janelia Farm of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute .
Vaa3D has also been extended to support ITK , Matlab , Bioformats , OpenCV and other widely used software .
The Wiener filter as originally proposed by Norbert Wiener is a signal processing filter which uses knowledge of the statistical properties of both the signal and the noise to reconstruct an optimal estimate of the signal from a noisy one-dimensional time-ordered data stream .
The generalized Wiener filter generalizes the same idea beyond the domain of one-dimensional time-ordered signal processing , with two-dimensional image processing being the most common application .
Because the SCARA was one of the first manipulators providing similar motion , this is often referred to as SCARA-type motion .
Quantum machine learning is an emerging interdisciplinary research area at the intersection of quantum physics and machine learning .
Reinforcement learning is a branch of machine learning distinct from supervised and unsupervised learning , which also admits quantum enhancements. have been proposed .
Examples include deep learning , probabilistic programming , and other machine learning and artificial intelligence applications .
It is intended to support scientific visualization and image processing applications .
On February 22 , 2018 , Alteryx was named a leader in the 2018 Magic Quadrant for Data Science and Machine Learning Platforms .
The context-based model was first proposed by cognitive scientist Afzal Upal in 2005 Upal , M. A. ( 2005 ) .
Typically , multidimensional signal processing is directly associated with digital signal processing because its complexity warrants the use of computer modelling and computation .
Because it was built to handle the data types above , it has been proven to have many advantages over other types of classification algorithms and machine learning algorithms such as decision trees , neural networks and regression techniques .
Kathleen McKeown is an American computer scientist , specializing in natural language processing .
She has held the positions of President , Vice President , and Secretary-Treasurer of the Association for Computational Linguistics and has been a board member and secretary of the board of the Computing Research Association .
Theneeds " proprietary technology is built using a mix of artificial intelligence and social signals .
Magazine Inc about the future of content discovery , Theneeds is mentioned as an example of innovative companies that are using artificial intelligence to know what users want ahead of time and bring it to them without any effort on their part .
The Self-Service Semantic Suite ( S4 ) provides on-demand access to text mining and linked open data technology in the cloud .
The topic of 2D adaptive filters is very important in electrical engineering and signal processing since these filters have the ability to take into account the nonstationary statistical properties of 2D signals .
Li works on Artificial intelligence , machine learning , computer vision , cognitive neuroscience and computational neuroscience .
Many concepts in one-dimensional signal processing are similar to concepts in multidimensional signal processing .
Multidimensional Digital filters are finding applications in many fields such as image processing , video processing , seismic tomography , magnetic data processing , Computed tomography ( CT ) , RADAR , Sonar and many more.Kwan , H. K. , and C. L. Chan .
Some of these applications include multidimensional filtering , multidimensional spectral analysis , error control coding , adaptive digital filters , image processing etc .
Processing these " implicit parts " to achieve eventual word identification requires specific statistical procedures involving Hidden Markov Model s ( HMM ) .
A Markov model is a statistical representation of a random process , which is to say a process in which future states are independent of states occurring before the present .
59 , pp. 2547-2553 , Oct. 2011 In one dimensional polynomial-based memory ( or memoryless ) DPD , in order to solve for the digital pre-distorter polynomials coefficients and minimize the mean squared error ( MSE ) , the distorted output of the nonlinear system must be over-sampled at a rate that enables the capture of the nonlinear products of the order of the digital pre-distorter .
The basic concepts involved in spectral estimation include autocorrelation , multi-D Fourier transform , mean square error and entropy .
Improved maximum likelihood method ( IMLM ) is a combination of two MLM ( maximum likelihood ) estimators .
In pattern recognition , the input image must be transformed into a feature representation that is easier for a classification algorithm to separate classes .
reducing the model to logistic regression on pairs of individuals .
The vessels initially used on the east coast were " Elsbeth III " ( tug ) and " GO Quest " ( support ) .
Social media mining uses a range of basic concepts from computer science , data mining , machine learning and statistics .
IVAN was the predecessor to several of today 's IPA 's , including Siri , Amazon Echo , Google Now and Cortana .
One Voice 's patent portfolio , which powered IVAN , was acquired by Apple in 2010 , prior to Apple 's launch of Siri and is referenced in patents ranging from Google , Microsoft , IBM , Nuance and Stanford University .
Initial stages of the competition occur online ( with virtual SPHERES ) with free team registration in the United States , Australia
It currently includes schools from the US , Russia , ESA affiliated statesAustralia .
Additionally some countries , notably Australia and Italy , choose to hold preliminary competitions to fit better into the school year and / or filter the schools going onto the International Competition .
Participants in the challenge Zero Robotics learn to program in either C / C + + , or MATLAB , or ( in the middle school competition ) Scratch .
In machine learning and mathematical optimization , loss functions for classification are computationally feasible loss functions representing the price paid for inaccuracy of predictions in classification problem s ( problems of identifying which category a particular observation belongs to ) .
It is shown that this is directly equivalent to decreasing the learning rate in gradient boosting mathF _ m ( x ) = F _ { m-1 } ( x ) + \ gamma h _ m ( x ) , / math where decreasing math \ gamma / math improves the regularization of the boosted classifier .
Specifically for Tikhonov regularization , one can solve for the regularization parameter using leave-one-out cross-validation in the same time as it would take to solve a single problem .
The logistic loss is used in the LogitBoost .
It 's easy to check that the logistic loss and binary cross entropy loss ( Log loss ) are in fact the same ( up to a multiplicative constant math \ frac { 1 } { \ log ( 2 ) } / math ) .The cross entropy loss is closely related to the Kullback-Leibler divergence between the empirical distribution and the predicted distribution .
The cross entropy loss is ubiquitous in modern deep learning .
The exponential loss is used in the AdaBoost .
The Savage loss has been used in gradient boosting and the SavageBoost algorithm .
The Tangent loss has been used in gradient boosting , the TangentBoost algorithm and Alternating Decision Forests .
Consequently , the hinge loss function cannot be used with gradient descent methods or stochastic gradient descent methods which rely on differentiability over the entire domain .
SVMs utilizing the hinge loss function can also be solved using quadratic programming .
Chessboards arise frequently in computer vision theory and practice because their highly structured geometry is well-suited for algorithmic detection and processing .
The appearance of chessboards in computer vision can be divided into two main areas : camera calibration and feature extraction .
The second context in which chessboards arise in computer vision is to demonstrate several canonical feature extraction algorithms .
In feature extraction , one seeks to identify image interest points , which summarize the semantic content of an image and , hence , offer a reduced dimensionality representation of one 's data .
The following MATLAB code generates the above images using the :
The following links are pointers to popular MATLAB and OpenCV implementations of chessboard-related computer vision algorithms .
Verification-based message-passing algorithms ( VB-MPAs ) in compressed sensing ( CS ) , a branch of digital signal processing that deals with measuring sparse signals , are some methods to efficiently solve the recovery problem in compressed sensing .
Matrix regularization has applications in matrix completion , multivariate regression , and multi-task learning .
Ideas of feature and group selection can also be extended to matrices , and these can be generalized to the nonparametric case of multiple kernel learning .
Models used in multivariate regression are parameterized by a matrix of coefficients .
The ideas of structured sparsity and feature selection can be extended to the nonparametric case of multiple kernel learning .
In Machine Learning and Computer Vision , M-Theory is a learning framework inspired by feed-forward processing in the ventral stream of visual cortex and originally developed for recognition and classification of objects in visual scenes .
M-Theory was later applied to other areas , such as speech recognition .
where math \ Epsilon / math is an error function and mathR / math is a regularization term. math \ Epsilon / math is typically the square loss function ( Tikhonov regularization ) or the hinge loss function ( for Support vector machine algorithms ) , and mathR / math is usually an math \ ell _ n / math norm or some combination of the norms ( i.e. elastic net regularization ) .
The parameters math \ alpha _ i ^ m / math and mathb / math are learned by gradient descent on a coordinate basis .
Unsupervised learning multiple kernel learning algorithms have also been proposed by Zhuang et al .
In computer vision , rigid motion segmentation is the process of separating regions , feature s , or trajectories from a video sequence into coherent subsets of space and time .
Image segmentation techniques labels the pixels to be a part of pixels with certain characteristics at a particular time .
Optical flow ( OF ) helps in determining the relative pixel velocity of points within an image sequence .
Underwater computer vision is a subfield of computer vision .
Image restoration aims to model the degradation process and then invert it , obtaining the new image after solving .
John D. Lafferty is an American scientist , Professor at Yale University and leading researcher in machine learning .
He is best known for proposing the Conditional Random Field s with Andrew McCallum and Fernando C.N. Pereira .
He was elected Fellow of Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers in 2007 " for contributions to statistical pattern recognition and statistical language processing .
Lafferty served many prestigious positions , including : 1 ) program co-chair and general co-chair of the Neural Information Processing Systems ( Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems ) Foundation conferences ; 2 ) co-director of CMU 's new Ph.D. Machine Learning Ph.D. Program ; 3 ) associate editor of the Journal of Machine Learning Research
Lafferty received numerous awards , including two Test-of-Time awards at the International Conference on Machine Learning 2011 & 2012 ,
In machine learning , a Hyper basis function network , or HyperBF network , is a generalization of radial basis function ( RBF ) networks concept , where the Mahalanobis -like distance is used instead of Euclidean distance measure .
Eric Xing is a professor at Carnegie Mellon University and researcher in machine learning , computational biology , and statistical methodology .
Xing received a B.Sc. in physics at Tsinghua University in 1993 , and a Ph.D. in molecular biology at Rutgers University in 1999 and a Ph.D. in computer science at the University of California , Berkeley in 2004 .
In 2016 , he was elected Fellow of Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence .
HKUST Robotics Team is a robotics team of the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology .
The HKUST Robotics Team was founded with intentions to encourage engineering students to take part in a variety of external robotics competitions , outside their regular curriculum in the early years of the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology .
The number theoretic Hilbert transform can be used to generate sets of orthogonal discrete sequences that have applications in signal processing , wireless systems , and cryptography .
CORE ( COnnecting REpositories ) is a service provided by the Knowledge Media Institute , based at The Open University , United Kingdom .
The goal of the project is to aggregate all open access content distributed across different systems , such as repositories and open access journal s , enrich this content using text mining and data mining , and provide free access to it through a set of services .
This limits the further reuse of the open access content , for example , with regards to Text mining .
The first version of CORE was created in 2011 by Petr Knoth with the aim to make it easier to access and text mining very large amounts of research publications .
CORE also provides a cross-repository content Recommender system based on full-texts .
They are typically used to perform transformational analysis & generation ( see Zellig Harris ) , but several teams of linguists have shown that , when used in conjunction with multilingual lexicons , they can be used to perform Machine Translation Barreiro A. 2008 .
Kearns received his B.S. degree at the University of California at Berkeley in math and computer science in 1985 , and Ph.D. in computer science from Harvard University in 1989 , under the supervision of Turing award winner Leslie Valiant .
Prior to joining the Penn faculty in 2002 , he spent a decade ( 1991-2001 ) in AT & T Labs and Bell Labs , including as head of the AI department with colleagues including Michael L. Littman , David A. McAllester , and Richard S. Sutton ; Secure Systems Research department ; and Machine Learning department with members such as Michael Collins and the leader ) .
Kearns was named Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery ( 2014 ) for contributions to machine learning , and a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences ( 2012 ) .
Fellowship , the Linguistic Society of America in 2014 .
The SMC is very similar to the more popular Jaccard index .
Machine learning techniques were originally designed for stationary and benign environments in which the training and test data are assumed to be generated from the same statistical distribution .
This technique shows how a malicious adversary can surreptitiously manipulate the input data so as to exploit specific vulnerabilities of Machine learning and compromise the security of the machine learning system .
ECU-TEST is a software tool developed by TraceTronic GmbH , based in Dresden , Germany , for test and validation of embedded systems .
The development of the software started within a research project on systematic testing of control units and laid the foundation for the spin-off of TraceTronic GmbH from TU Dresden .
Using user-defined test steps , plug-ins and Python scripts , additional tools can be integrated with little effort .
Izay was born in Kinshasa , Zaire ( now the Democratic Republic of Congo ) on June 3rd , 1973 .
In MATLAB code the so called 5-tap filter is
As an example the first order derivatives can be computed in the following using MATLAB in order to perform the convolution
The example in below in MATLAB use the Catmull-Rom spline to compute the derivatives
She was elected as a Foreign Member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences / Koninklijke Nederlandse Akademie van Wetenschappen ( KNAW ) in 1991 .
Bluefin Robotics is an American robotics company , headquartered in Quincy , Massachusetts , which specialises in the design and manufacture of military and civilian autonomous underwater vehicle s ( AUVs ) and related technology .
He has now shifted from research to administration and presently serves as the Vice President for Research and Economic Development. of Computer Science and Engineering , University at Buffalo School of Engineering and Applied Sciences at the University at Buffalo , The State University of New York , Buffalo , NY , USA .
He received his undergraduate degree with honors ( BTech ) in Computer Science from the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur , India in 1986 and his Master 's and PhD degrees in Computer Science in 1988 and 1992 from the University at Buffalo , the State University of New York , Buffalo , NY , USA .
Govindaraju is a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery ,
Surface Robotics Laboratory ( SR Lab ) is one of the major R & D Groups in the field of Robotics in Central Mechanical Engineering Research Institute .
Computer vision is the ability of computers ( or of robots ) to recognize their environment and to interpret it correctly .
In contrast to image analysis image processing manipulates images to produce better images .
Due to the high bandwidth of the human visual channel ( eye ) , images are also a preferred part of ergonomic user interfaces in any system , so that human-computer interaction is also an integral part of visual computing .
In particular , black box methods , such as multilayer perceptron and support vector machine , had good accuracy but could not provide deep insight into the studied phenomenon .
On the other hand , decision tree learning were able to describe the phenomenon but often lacked accuracy .
Usually in supervised learning ( without domain adaptation ) , we suppose that the examples math ( x _ i , y _ i ) \ in S / math are drawn i.i.d. from a distribution mathD _ S / math of support mathX \ times Y / math ( unknown and fixed ) .
Distributed R is an open source , high-performance platform for the R language .
The company was founded in 2014 as a spin-off from HP Labs .
Luminoso was co-founded in 2010 by Dennis Clark , Jason Alonso , Robyn Speer , and Catherine Havasi ,
During the World Cup in June 2014 , the company provided a widely reported real-time sentiment analysis of the U.S. vs. Germany match , analyzing 900,000 posts on Twitter , Facebook and Google + .
The company uses artificial intelligence , natural language processing , and machine learning to derive insights from unstructured data such as contact center interactions , chatbot and live chat transcripts , product reviews , open-ended survey responses , and email .
Luminoso continues to actively conduct research in natural language processing and word embeddings and regularly participates in evaluations such as SemEval .
In particular , the team drew on Zellig Harris ' s discourse analysis methodology to develop a system for computer analysis of natural language.Sager , Naomi , and Nhan , Ngo Than , " The computability of strings , transformations , and sublanguage , " pp. 78 & ndash ; 120 .
Joel Greenblatt ' s magic formula investing is a simple illustration of a quantitative value investing strategy .
It includes algorithms for image segmentation , geometric transformations , color space manipulation , analysis , filtering , morphology , feature detection , and more .
Natural language processing methods are used to extract and identify language usage patterns common to speakers of an L1-group .
Next , machine learning is applied to train classifiers , like support vector machine s , for predicting the L1 of unseen texts.Tetreault et al , , In Proc .
The Building Educational Applications ( BEA ) workshop at NAACL 2013 hosted the inaugural NLI shared task.Tetreault et al , , 2013 The competition resulted in 29 entries from teams across the globe , 24 of which also published a paper describing their systems and approaches .
It provides a seamless integration with third party CAD and CAE software tools , powerful multi-objective and robust optimization algorithms , data analysis and uncertainty quantification tools .
According to the American Management Association and the ePolicy Institute , who undertook a quantitative survey in 2007 about electronic monitoring and surveillance with approximately 300 US companies , " more than one fourth of employers have fired workers for misusing email and nearly one third have fired employees for misusing the Internet .
Asprise OCR is a commercial optical character recognition and barcode recognition SDK library that provides an API to recognize text as well as barcodes from images ( in formats like JPEG , PNG , TIFF , PDF , etc .
Paweł Łupkowski and Mariusz Urbanski from Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznań uses Asprise OCR version 4 and ABBYY FineReader to perform CAPTCHA recognition .
Feature engineering is the process of using domain knowledge to extract features from raw data via data mining techniques .
These features can be used to improve the performance of machine learning algorithms .
By adopting several Optical Character Recognition ( OCR ) algorithm s , including libraries developed by Microsoft Research and Google , text is automatically identified in images .
Before the Optical Character Recognition ( OCR ) can be applied , it has to first identify whether blocks of text exists in an image .
The software is developed by Agisoft LLC located in St. Petersburg in Russia .
Notable researchers in this branch of geography include David Mark , Daniel Montello , Max J. Egenhofer , Andrew U. Frank , Christian Freksa , Edward Tolman , and Barbara Tversky , among others .
The project was originally developed for Public Procurements of Slovakia ..
Backpropagation Through Structure ( BPTS ) is a gradient -based technique for training recursive neural nets ( a superset of Recurrent neural network ) and is extensively described in a 1996 paper written by Christoph Goller and Andreas Küchler .
CONN is a Matlab -based cross-platform imaging software for the computation , display , and analysis of functional connectivity in fMRI ( functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging ) in the resting state and during task .
From Bonn he has contributed fundamentally to artificial intelligence and robotics ( with Wolfram Burgard , Dieter Fox , Sebastian Thrun among his students ) , and to the development of software engineering , particularly in civil engineering , and information systems , particularly in the geosciences. won the AAAI Classic Paper award of 2016.2014 .
Several studies highlighted that robo-taxis operated in an Autonomous Mobility on Demand ( AMoD ) service could be one of the most rapidly adopted applications of autonomous car s at scale and a major mobility solution in the near future , especially in urban area s , providing the majority of vehicle miles in the United States within a decade of their first introduction .
In August 2016 , MIT spinoff NuTonomy was the first company to make robo-taxis available to the public , starting to offer rides with a fleet of 6 modified Renault Zoe s and Mitsubishi i-MiEV s in a limited area in Singapore .
It was written and designed by Hideo Kojima and first released in 1988 for the PC-8801 and MSX2 in Japan .
The game was a significant inspiration on Goichi Suda , who worked with Kojima to produce a radio drama prequel , " Sdatcher " .
He , his father and Jamie were involved in a secret experiment taken under by the Soviet Union over 50 years prior during the Cold War to create Snatchers , which were designed to kill and replace world leaders , giving the Soviets more power .
" Snatcher " was created by Hideo Kojima , working for Konami .
Many methods are based upon the optical flow .
The SSD is also known as mean squared error .
The Bulgarian WordNet ( BulNet ) is a lexical semantic network of Bulgarian following the Princeton WordNet ( PWN ) framework which implements the traditional semantic networks whose structure consists of nodes and relations between the nodes.Koeva , S. , G. Totkov and A. Genov .
In 2000 Cutler was elected member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences .
The service uses a self-learning statistical machine translation , The system constructs the dictionary of single-word translations based on the analysis of millions of translated texts .
In September 2017 , Yandex.Translate switched to a hybrid approach incorporating both statistical machine translation and neural machine translation models .
According to Arkady Volozh , the mechanism of Translate is as follows :
His first job was as a Housing Officer for the London and Quadrant Housing Trust .
His early research career was closely associated with word sense disambiguation ( PhD thesis above ) .
He was one of the founding members and former chair ( 2006-2008 ) of the Special Interest Group on Web as Corpus ( SIGWAC ) of the Association for Computational Linguistics and also one of the founding organizers of SENSEVAL .
Most frequently it is mentioned in the context of natural language processing problems.Antonio Di Marco - Roberto Navigili , program designed for network analysis .
Davis is best known for his research in the field of computer vision .
In statistics , jackknife variance estimates for random forest are a way to estimate the variance in random forest models , in order to eliminate the bootstrap effects .
Here , accuracy is measured by error rate , which is defined as :
A Boltzmann machine is a type of stochastic neural network invented by Geoffrey Hinton and Terry Sejnowski in 1985 .
The classification accuracy of multimodal deep Boltzmann machine outperforms support vector machine s , latent Dirichlet allocation and deep belief network , when models are tested on data with both image-text modalities or with single modality .
It implements deep architectures with multiple non-linear layers and contains utilities to solve function regression , pattern recognition , time series and autoencoding problems .
In many OFDM wireless communication standards , for example , DVB-T , IEEE 802.11 a / g / n , and IEEE 802.16 e OFDM mode , dedicated pilot subcarriers are allocated to facilitate receiver synchronization .
Wonder Workshop is an education and robotics startup based in Silicon Valley in the United States .
Later , the same sequence of points was popularized by , who used it as part of a greedy algorithm approximation algorithm for the problem of finding " k " clusters that minimize the maximum diameter of a cluster .
This problem is one of several formulations of cluster analysis and facility location , in which the goal is to partition a given set of points into " k " different clusters , each with a chosen center point , such that the maximum distance from any point to the center of its cluster is minimized .
The farthest-first traversal of a finite point set may be computed by a greedy algorithm that maintains the distance of each point from the previously selected points , performing the following steps :
" The World Press Photo organizers responded by letting two independent experts analyze the image files of the winning photographer and subsequently confirmed the integrity of the files .
Google 's program popularized the term ( deep ) " dreaming " to refer to the generation of images that produce desired activation s in a trained deep neural network , and the term now refers to a collection of related approaches .
The DeepDream software , originated in a deep convolutional neural network codenamed " Inception " after the film of the same name , and released in July 2015 .
The optimization resembles Backpropagation , however instead of adjusting the network weights , the weights are held fixed and the input is adjusted .
Extreme learning machines are feedforward neural network s for classification , regression , Cluster analysis , sparse approximation , compression and feature learning with a single layer or multiple layers of hidden nodes , where the parameters of hidden nodes ( not just the weights connecting inputs to hidden nodes ) need not be tuned .
According to their creators , these models are able to produce good generalization performance and learn thousands of times faster than networks trained using backpropagation .
From 2010 to 2015 , ELM research extended to the unified learning framework for kernel learning , SVM and a few typical feature learning methods such as Principal component analysis ( PCA ) and Non-negative matrix factorization ( NMF ) .
Due to its different learning algorithm implementations for regression , classification , sparse coding , compression , feature learning and clustering , multi ELMs have been used to form multi hidden layer networks , deep learning or hierarchical networks .
Pushmeet conducts research in the field of machine learning and computer vision .
VVVVID is an Italy video on demand service and a virtual community , with an offering that includes international movie s , anime , series , music video s , and short thematic videos .
BisQue allows users to write analysis modules in the programming language of their choice ( e.g. , MATLAB , Python , C + + ) by using language-specific APIs .
It is currently available for Python and Matlab .
An image processing algorithm developed in MATLAB was used to detect laser dots projected onto the seafloor as a scale reference .
International Society for Knowledge Organization ( ISKO ) e.V .
At the end of 1970 , Prof. Alwin Diemer , Univ.of Düsseldorf proposed to Ingetraut Dahlberg to undertake a philosophical dissertation on " The universal classification system of knowledge , its ontological , epistemological , and information theoretical foundations " .
These models are shallow , two-layer neural network s that are trained to reconstruct linguistic contexts of words .
Word2vec was created and published in 2013 by a team of researchers led by Tomas Mikolov at Google and patented .
IWE combines Word2vec with a semantic dictionary mapping technique to tackle the major challenges of information extraction from clinical texts , which include ambiguity of free text narrative style , lexical variations , use of ungrammatical and telegraphic phases , arbitrary ordering of words , and frequent appearance of abbreviations and acronyms .
It is an affiliated organization of Chonnam National University in Gwangju , Republic of Korea .
Prof. Jong Oh Park moved from the Korea Institute of Science and Technology to Chonnam National University in early 2005 and established RRI in March 2008 , where he is still actively in charge .
RRI is currently a leading institute in the medical robotics field , especially in the area of biomedical micro / nano robotics .
Prof. Jong Oh Park , director of RRI , transferred following technologies when he worked at KIST .
In the context of digital signal processing ( DSP ) , a digital signal is a discrete-time signal for which not only the time but also the amplitude has discrete values ; in other words , its samples take on only values from a discrete set ( a countable set that can be mapped one-to-one to a subset of integer s ) .
Trax is a technology company headquartered in Singapore , with offices throughout the Asia-Pacific , Europe , the Middle East , North America , and South America .
In June 2019 , Trax announced its acquisition of LenzTech , a Chinese-based company providing Artificial intelligence ) , crowdsourcing services , and Big Data analysis to the retail market .
Trax 's computer vision technology uses Artificial Intelligence , fine-grained image recognition , and machine learning engines to convert store images into shelf insights .
visage | SDK allows software programmer s to build a wide variety of Facial motion capture and eye tracking applications for various operating system s , mobile and tablet environments , and embedded systems , using computer vision and machine learning algorithms .
The development of Visage | SDK started in 2002 when Visage Technologies AB was founded in Linköping , Sweden .
visageSDK is used in various application fields , such as game development , arts and entertainment , marketing and retail , marketing research , automotive industry , industrial safety , assistive technologies , health care , biometrics , audio processing and robotics .
Manav ( Sanskrit : मानव , pronounced ' Maanav ' / Mɑnʌv , meaning " human " ) is India ' s first humanoid robot which was developed in the laboratory of A-SET Training and Research Institutes by Diwakar Vaish ( Head of Robotics and Research , A-SET Training and Research Institutes ) in late December 2014 .
It debuted at the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay Techfest 2014-15 in Mumbai .
Bengio , together with Geoffrey Hinton and Yann LeCun , are referred to by some as the " Godfathers of AI " and " Godfathers of Deep Learning .
Along with Geoffrey Hinton and Yann LeCun , Bengio is considered by Cade Metz as one of the three people most responsible for the advancement of deep learning during the 1990s and 2000s .
In October 2016 , Bengio co-founded Element AI , a Montreal -based artificial intelligence incubator that turns AI research into real-world business applications .
Together with Geoffrey Hinton and Yann LeCun , Bengio won the 2018 Turing Award .
Domingos received an undergraduate degree and Master of Science degree from Instituto Superior Técnico ( IST ) .
Dimitris Metaxas is a distinguished professor and the chair of the Computer Science Department
Metaxas was educated at the University of Toronto where he was awarded a PhD degree in 1992 under the supervision of Demetri Terzopoulos as part of the Dynamic Graphics Project .
He was awarded an M.Sc. in Computer Science from the University of Maryland , College Park in 1988 .
He did his undergraduate studies in Electrical and Computer Engineering at the National Technical University of Athens .
In September 2001 , he moved to Rutgers as a professor in the Department of Computer Science at Rutgers University .
Metaxas has developed formal methods upon which computer vision , computer graphics and medical image computing have advanced synergistically .
For this work , his student Nick Foster won a Technical Achievement award from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in 1999 .
In principle , exact recovery can be solved in its feasible range using maximum likelihood , but this amounts to solving a constrained or regularized cut problem such as minimum bisection that is typically NP-complete .
China : Xiaoice , launched in 2014
Japan : りんな , launched in 2015
India : Ruuh , launched in 2017 - discontinued June 21st 2019
Indonesia : Rinna , launched in 2017
Data mining software uses advanced Pattern recognition to sift through large amounts of data to assist in discovering previously unknown strategic business information .
Some machine learning algorithms can be applied in medical field as second-opinion diagnostic tools and as tools for the knowledge extraction phase in the process of knowledge discovery in databases .
" The Master Algorithm : How the Quest for the Ultimate Learning Machine Will Remake Our World " is a book by Pedro Domingos released in 2015 .
In 2016 Bill Gates recommended the book , alongside Nick Bostrom ' s " Superintelligence " , as one of two books everyone should read to understand AI .
Medin was inducted into the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2002 , and into the National Academy of Sciences in 2005 .
They require only a fraction of the memory needed by traditional statistical machine translation ( SMT ) models .
Deep learning applications appeared first in speech recognition in the 1990s .
NMT departs from phrase-based statistical machine translation approaches that use separately engineered subcomponents .
NMT models use deep learning and representation learning .
The word sequence modeling was at first typically done using a recurrent neural network ( RNN ) .
Many robust metaheuristic techniques , such as simulated annealing , evolutionary algorithm s , particle swarm optimization , and ant colony optimization , have been introduced by researchers in the last few decades through clearly identifying and formulating similarities between algorithms and the processes they are modeled on .
The researchers say the code could eventually be used in facial recognition system , fingerprint , and iris recognition systems for high-tech security , as well as in self-driving cars ' navigation systems or for inspecting industrial products .
In robotics and mechatronics , actuator s are required .
It was founded in 2000 and has been developing natural language understanding and natural language generation ( together , dialogue ) software since 2001 .
A key feature distinguishing North Side 's technology from an intelligent personal assistant based on machine learning , such as .
| Apple Apple Inc ' s Siri , Google ' s Now , Microsoft ' s Cortana , Nuance ' s Nina or IBM ' s Watson , is its ability to clarify ambiguous or incomplete input and handle paraphrases , using a deterministic , rule-based approach .
where the interpolation parameter math \ alpha / math is used in order to count the weight of Model 4 relatively to the hidden Markov model .
While processing digital signals , particularly multidimensional signals , often involves a series of vector operations on massive numbers of independent data samples , GPGPUs are now widely employed to accelerate multidimensional DSP , such as image processing , video codecs , radar signal analysis , sonar signal processing , and ultrasound scan ning .
Apple Inc and is maintained and developed by the Khronos Group now .
Many self-driving car s apply 3-D image recognition techniques to auto control the vehicles .
The company is headquartered in San Francisco , California , with engineering operations in Tallinn , Estonia .
Starship also has offices in London , UK , Germany , Washington , DC and Mountain View , California .
Similar to 1-D Digital signal processing in case of the Multidimensional signal processing we have Efficient algorithms .
It is a symbolic math library , and is also used for machine learning applications such as neural networks ..
Starting in 2011 , Google Brain built DistBelief as a proprietary machine learning system based on deep learning neural networks .
In May 2016 , Google announced its Tensor processing unit ( TPU ) , an application-specific integrated circuit ( a hardware chip ) built specifically for machine learning and tailored for TensorFlow .
TPU is a programmable AI accelerator designed to provide high throughput of low-precision arithmetic ( e.g. , 8-bit ) , and oriented toward using or running models rather than Supervised learning them .
Originally designed to help equip Google employees with practical artificial intelligence and machine learning fundamentals , Google rolled out its free TensorFlow workshops in several cities around the world before finally releasing the course to the public .
TensorFlow provides stable Python ( for version 3.7 across all platforms ) and Swift ( early release ! --version 0.3-- ) .
Among the applications for which TensorFlow is the foundation , are automated image-captioning software , such as DeepDream .
Robotic materials allow to off-load computation inside the material , most notably signal processing that arises during high-bandwidth sensing applications or feedback control that is required by fine-grained distributed actuation .
Beamforming is a signal processing technique used to spatially select propagating waves ( most notably acoustic and electromagnetic waves ) .
The array classes are fully compatible with the array features of MATLAB smallsup ( R ) / sup / small and numpy , including internal storage order , subarray creation , expansion , and advanced indexing .
Higher level functionality is provided by toolboxes for interpolation , optimization , statistics , HDF5 and machine learning .
This deviates from the syntax of Matlab , which are often weakly typed and therefore easier to adopt .
Just like Java - those frameworks are often criticized for not being suitable for numerical computations .
It is characteristic of such programs that they are Unsupervised learning to a degree , learning , for example that humans or vehicles appear bigger in certain portions of the monitored image - those areas near the camera - than in other portions , those being the areas farthest from the camera .
Machine learning of object recognition relates to patterns and their classification.Pedro Domingos , " The Master Algorithm : How the
Artificial intelligence for video surveillance is widely use din China .
" Computational intelligence " ( " Artificial intelligence , machine learning , non-parametric , non-linear statistical " ) techniques combine elements of learning , evolution and fuzziness to create approaches that are capable of adapting to complex dynamic systems , and may be regarded as " intelligent " in this sense .
Consensus forecast s , also known as " combining forecasts " , " forecast averaging " or " model averaging " ( in econometrics and statistics ) and " committee machine s " , " ensemble averaging " or " expert aggregation " ( in machine learning ) , are predictions of the future that are created by combining together several separate forecasts which have often been created using different methodologies .
Saliency estimation may be viewed as an instance of image segmentation .
In computer vision , image segmentation is the process of partitioning a digital image into multiple segments ( sets of pixels , also known as superpixels ) .
All of the following code is pseudo matlab code .
Jussi Karlgren is known for having pioneered the application of computational linguistics to stylometry , for having first formulated the notion of a recommender system Karlgren , Jussi .
Roborace is a competition with Autonomous car , electrically powered vehicles .. In 2019 they announced Season Alpha , which would be the first time multiple independent teams would compete against each other .
All teams will utilize the same chassis and powertrain , but will have to develop their own real-time computing algorithms and artificial intelligence technologies .
The world 's first purpose-built autonomous racing car , Robocar , was designed by Daniel Simon , who previously worked on vehicles for movies such as " Tron : Legacy " and " Oblivion " , as well as designing the livery for the 2011 HRT Formula One car .
At the start of the 2017 / 18 Formula E season , the Roborace developers once again tested the DevBot during a public time trial between the Roborace CI and the TV presenter Nicki Shields at the 2017 Hong Kong ePrix .
Two teams are initially competing : Arrival and Technical University of Munich .
In machine learning , Manifold regularization is a technique for using the shape of a dataset to constrain the functions that should be learned on that dataset .
For example , a facial recognition system may not need to classify any possible image , but only the subset of images that contain faces .
Manifold regularization algorithms can extend supervised learning algorithms in semi-supervised learning and transductive learning settings , where unlabeled data are available .
In particular , RLS is designed to minimize the mean squared error between the predicted values and the true labels , subject to regularization .
This can be directly expressed as a linear program , but it is also equivalent to Tikhonov regularization with the hinge loss function , mathV ( f ( x ) , y ) = \ max ( 0 , 1 - yf ( x ) ) / math :
IMDb knoweth it not , nor is it even listed in Chris Ohlson ' s filmography .
In February 2017 the German Federal Network Agency notified parents that they were obliged to " destroy " any Cayla in their possession as it constitutes a concealed espionage device violating the German Telecommunications Act .
The resulting controversy led to the doll 's inclusion in the Museum of Failure in Sweden , where similar failed products and services which were either commercial failures or are controversial in their own right are on display .
The emergence of sparse dictionary learning methods was stimulated by the fact that in signal processing one typically wants to represent the input data using as few components as possible .
This case is strongly related to dimensionality reduction and techniques like principal component analysis which require atoms mathd _ 1 , ... , d _ n / math to be orthogonal .
After applying one of the optimization methods to the value of the dual ( such as Newton 's method or Conjugate gradient method ) we get the value of math \ mathbf { D } / math :
The way to choose an optimal math \ gamma / math in finite sample settings is usually through cross-validation .
Kernel methods ( for instance , support vector machine s or Gaussian process es ) project data points into a high-dimensional or infinite-dimensional feature space and find the optimal splitting hyperplane .
Lots of algorithms can solve machine learning problems using the " kernel matrix " .
The Dutch Automated Vehicle Initiative ( DAVI ) is a research and demonstration initiative developing autonomous car s for use on public roads .
The remainder of the article will focus on binary classification , where math \ mathcal { Y } = \ { 0 , 1 \ } / math .
" See : " Unsupervised learning
Two main approaches for solving the optimization problem are : 1 ) greedy methods , such as step-wise regression in statistics , or matching pursuit in signal processing ; and 2 ) convex relaxation formulation approaches and proximal gradient optimization methods .
Structured Sparsity regularization can be applied in the context of multiple kernel learning .
He was the founding Head of Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Unit ( which was established in 1994 ) of Indian Statistical Institute .
Moreover , he was a J.C. Bose Fellow and INAE Distinguished Professor at Indian Statistical Institute .
He is a pioneer of " Indian language script Optical Character Recognition .
) , B. Tech. and M. Tech. degrees from University of Calcutta , India in 1969 , 1972 and 1974 , respectively and Ph.D. Degree from Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur in 1980 .
Chaudhuri has been elected as a Life Fellow of Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers " for contributions to pattern recognition , especially Indian language script OCR , document processing and natural language processing .
Indian National Science Academy ( INSA ) ,
Integral Channel Features ( ICF ) , also known as ChnFtrs , is a method for object detection in computer vision .
in their work for pedestrian detection , that was first described at the BMVC in 2009 .
While this definition of a " channel " is widely accepted across various domains , there exists a broader definition in computer vision , which allows one to exploit other features of an image besides the color information .
The " ChnFtrs " + AdaBoost detector was tested on full images from INRIA and Caltech datasets .
UBY is a large-scale lexical-semantic resource for natural language processing ( NLP ) developed at the Ubiquitous Knowledge Processing Lab ( UKP ) in the department of Computer Science of the Technische Universität Darmstadt .
UBY applies a word sense alignment approach ( subfield of word sense disambiguation ) for combining information about nouns and verbs.Matuschek , Michael : Word Sense Alignment of Lexical Resources .
BabelNet is an automatically lexical semantic resource that links Wikipedia to the most popular computational lexicons such as WordNet .
UBY has been successfully used in different NLP tasks such as Word Sense Disambiguation , Christian M. Meyer and Iryna Gurevych : To Exhibit is not to Loiter : A Multilingual , Sense-Disambiguated Wiktionary for Measuring Verb Similarity , in : Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Computational Linguistics ( COLING ) , Vol .
Generalized structure tensor can be used as an alternative to Hough transform in image processing and computer vision to detect patterns whose local orientations can be modelled , for example junction points .
These bases are particularly well adapted to decomposing Signal processing that have different behavior in different frequency intervals .
RoboValley is a centre for robotics , headquartered in Delft , Netherlands .
Legg attended Rotorua Lakes High School in Rotorua , on New Zealand ' s North Island .
In particular , he is interested in measures of intelligence for machines , neural networks , artificial evolution , reinforcement learning and the theory of learning .
In 2010 , Legg cofounded the start-up DeepMind Technologies along with Demis Hassabis and Mustafa Suleyman .
Major advances in this field can result from advances in learning algorithm s ( such as deep learning ) , computer hardware , and , less-intuitively , the availability of high-quality training datasets .
High-quality labeled training datasets for Supervised learning and Semi-supervised learning machine learning algorithms are usually difficult and expensive to produce because of the large amount of time needed to label the data .
Although they do not need to be labeled , high-quality datasets for Unsupervised learning learning can also be difficult and costly to produce.Weiss , Gary M. , and Foster Provost .
Datasets consisting primarily of images or videos for tasks such as object detection , Facial recognition system , and multi-label classification .
In computer vision , face images have been used extensively to develop facial recognition system s , face detection , and many other projects that use images of faces .
Datasets consisting primarily of text for tasks such as natural language processing , sentiment analysis , translation , and cluster analysis .
Datasets containing electric signal information requiring some sort of Signal processing for further analysis .
Turing Robot ( aka Guangnian Wuxian , 图灵机器人 ) is a Chinese company that develops cognitive computing technology , deep learning , and intelligent robot operating system s .
The company is the first China company engaged in research on the commercialization of artificial intelligence ( AI ) .
cognitive computing , human-machine interaction , and machine learning .
By simulating the cognitive and communicative behaviors of humans , the Turing Robot provides users with a conversation feature that provides intelligence-based interaction in hardware and software products , as well as the Natural language processing Knowledge Base for customized life and business needs .
It includes a thinking enhancement engine , an affective computing engine and a self-learning engine .
The affective computing engine of the Turing OS has two components : human emotion recognition and human-like emotion expression .
During November 2015 , Match Analysis participated in discussions with International Football Association Board and FIFA at their headquarters in Zurich , Switzerland to advise on global standards for electronic performance and tracking systems .
Match Analysis tools and services provide video indexing and archiving , statistical analysis , live data collection , Video tracking , fitness reports , and performance analysis .
The company has worked with eight different national teams including Germany , the United States , and Mexico and has relationships with over 50 professional clubs .
Various Clients can interact with Nirvana including the supplied Web browser and Java based GUI Clients , a Command Line Interface , a native Windows virtual network drive interface , and user-developed applications via supplied .
Nirvana can be used to conduct search Information retrieval to find data of interest using both system and user-defined metadata .
Renjin is tightly integrated with Java to allow the embedding of the interpreter into any Java application with full two-way access between the Java and R code .
This standard is named after Pliny the Elder , a very influential figure in the study of the biological species .
Partner for the development of Plinian Core in this new phase incorporated the University of Granada ( UG , Spain ) , the Alexander von Humboldt Institute ( IAvH , Colombia ) , the National Commission for the Knowledge and Use of Biodiversity ( Conabio , Mexico ) and the University of São Paulo ( USP , Brazil ) .
AlphaGo is a computer program that plays the board game Go .
and AlphaZero .
AlphaGo and its successors use a Monte Carlo tree search algorithm to find its moves based on knowledge previously " learned " by machine learning , specifically by an artificial neural network ( a deep learning method ) by extensive training , both from human and computer play .
Starting from a ' blank page ' , with only a short training period , AlphaGo Zero achieved a 100-0 victory against the champion-defeating AlphaGo , while its successor , the self-taught AlphaZero , is currently perceived as the world 's top player in Go as well as possibly in chess .
Almost two decades after IBM 's computer Deep Blue beat world chess champion Garry Kasparov in the 1997 match , the strongest Go programs using artificial intelligence techniques only reached about amateur 5-dan level ,
According to DeepMind 's David Silver , the AlphaGo research project was formed around 2014 to test how well a neural network using deep learning can compete at Go .
In a paper released on arXiv on 5 December 2017 , DeepMind claimed that it generalized AlphaGo Zero 's approach into a single AlphaZero algorithm , which achieved within 24 hours a superhuman level of play in the games of chess , shogi , and Go by defeating world-champion programs , Stockfish , Elmo , and 3-day version of AlphaGo Zero in each case .
As of 2016 , AlphaGo 's algorithm uses a combination of machine learning and tree search techniques , combined with extensive training , both from human and computer play .
It uses Monte Carlo tree search , guided by a " value network " and a " policy network , " both implemented using deep neural network technology .
When compared with Deep Blue or Watson , AlphaGo 's underlying algorithms are potentially more general-purpose and may be evidence that the scientific community is making progress towards artificial general intelligence .
In 2017 , the DeepMind AlphaGo team received the inaugural IJCAI Marvin Minsky medal for Outstanding Achievements in AI .
Toby Manning , the referee of AlphaGo 's match against Fan Hui , and Hajin Lee , secretary general of the International Go Federation , both reason that in the future , Go players will get help from computers to learn what they have done wrong in games and improve their skills .
DeepZenGo , a system developed with support from video-sharing website Dwango and the University of Tokyo , lost 2-1 in November 2016 to Go master Cho Chikun , who holds the record for the largest number of Go title wins in Japan .
" I can find five such articles ( Millind Gaba , Himanshi Khurana , Virsa Arts , JSL Singh and Samira Koppikar ) and it appears that " all " of those references were in fact placed there by Kavindeep .
Edits on Karim Metwaly .
In mathematical optimization , affine scaling is an algorithm for solving linear programming problems .
Specifically , it is an interior point method , discovered by Soviet Union mathematician I. I. Dikin in 1967 and reinvented in the United States in the mid-1980s .
These problems are solved using an iterative method , which conceptually proceeds by plotting a trajectory of points strictly inside the feasible region of a problem , computing projected gradient descent steps in a re-scaled version of the problem , then scaling the step back to the original problem .
Remote Applications in Challenging Environments ( RACE ) is a remote handling and robotics test facility located at Culham Science Centre near Oxford , UK , operated by United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority .
RACE in partnership with the Science and Technology Facilities Council is facilitating a major contract to design , manufacture and install remotely operated equipment in the Active Cell Facility of the European Spallation Source ( ESS ) which is under construction in Lund , Sweden .
Self-driving car ) are expected to provide huge social , industrial and economic benefits to the world .
In 2016 , they released their collaborative robots ( cobot s ) worldwide .
However , by using a Deep Convolutional neural network designed for long-term predictions , Darkforest has been able to substantially improve the win rate for bots over more traditional Monte Carlo Tree Search based approaches .
After Google ' s AlphaGo won against Fan Hui in 2015 , Facebook made its AI 's hardware designs public , alongside releasing the code behind DarkForest as open-source , along with heavy recruiting to strengthen its team of AI engineers .
The family of Darkforest computer go programs is based on Convolutional neural network .
Darkfmcts3 relies on a Convolutional neural network that predicts the next k moves based on the current state of play .
The learning rate was determined by vanilla stochastic gradient descent .
Malayalam WordNet has been developed by the Department of Computer Science , Cochin University of Science and Technology .
It was observed that data scientists would write machine learning algorithms in languages such as R and Python for small data .
Led by co-founders Paul Magee , Sean Morley , Chris Howard , Harold Roffey and Myles Glashier , the software development commenced that same year in Collaroy , Australia .
Werker has been named a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada , and a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science , as well as of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and Association for Psychological Science .
The competition has been organised since 2014 in Poland .
Among the guests there was Professor Scott Hubbard , former head of NASA 'a Ames Research Centre , and Robert Zubrin , founder of Mars Society .
The ERC 2019 took place at the Kielce University of Technology with over 40 teams qualified for the competition .
The fifth edition of the challenge was accompanied by the Mentoring and Business Conference attended by representatives of the space sector from Poland , Europe and the whole world , including Steve Jurczyk , Associate Administrator at NASA , Maria Antonietta Perino from Thales Alenia Space , Gianfranco Visentin and Pantelis Poulakis from ESA and Artemis Westenberg from Explore Mars Europe .
CISBOT ( cast-iron sealing robot ) a cast iron pipe repair robot that seals the joints in natural gas pipelines from the inside .
The model is an unsupervised learning algorithm for obtaining vector representations for words .
It is commonly utilized in time series analysis and signal processing for parameter estimation and signal detection .
The " Aphelion Imaging Software Suite " is a software suite that includes three base products - Aphelion Lab , Aphelion Dev , and Aphelion for addressing image processing and image analysis applications .
The development of Aphelion started in 1995 as a joint project of a French company , software library was developed at the Center of Mathematical Morphology of Mines ParisTech , and both companies carried out its development tasks .
The goal of image processing is usually to extract object ( s ) of interest in an image , and then to Machine learning them based on some characteristics such as shape , density , position , etc .
) , or even newer techniques such as deep learning .
There is a very tight connection between image processing and classification ( machine learning ) , which is part of the artificial intelligence field .
Military drones have seen extensive use during campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan .
The QDriverStation is a free and open-source robotics software for the FIRST Robotics Competition .
Movidius is a company based in San Mateo , California that designs specialised low-power processor chips for computer vision .
Intel 's Myriad X VPU is the first of its class to feature the Neural Compute Engine - a dedicated hardware accelerator for deep neural network Deep learning inferences .
Supported frameworks are TensorFlow and Caffe .
Moley Robotics is a robotics company headquartered in London , United Kingdom .
In May 2015 , the Robotic Kitchen won the " Best of the Best " CES Shanghai award in China .
The site is funded by the National Cancer Institute ' s ( NCI ) Cancer Imaging Program , and the contract is operated by the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences .
Tay was an artificial intelligence chatter bot that was originally released by Microsoft Corporation via Twitter on March 23 , 2016 ; it caused subsequent controversy when the bot began to post inflammatory and offensive tweets through its Twitter account , causing Microsoft to shut down the service only 16 hours after its launch .
Manirampur is a census town in Chanditala I CD Block in Srirampore subdivision of Hooghly district in the state of West Bengal , India .
The municipalities are : Uttarpara Kotrung Municipality , Konnagar Municipality , Serampore Municipality , Baidyabati Municipality , Rishra Municipality and Dankuni Municipality .
The Georges Giralt PhD Award is a European scientific prize for extraordinary contributions in robotics .
He joined Tarbiat Modares University as a faculty member since 1999 and know works as a Full Professor of Information Technology in School of Engineering .
After completing his education , He changed his research sphere into IT , consequently , he founded the first IT Research Institute in Iran at Tarbiat Modares University .
In addition , he founded " Iranian Conference on E-Learning and E-Teaching ( ICELET ) " accompanied by Dr. Parvin Kadivar ( Kharazmi University ) , Dr. Ahmad Kardan ( Amirkabir University of Technology ) and Dr. Fattaneh Taghiyareh ( University of Tehran ) in 2006 .
A generative adversarial network ( GAN ) is a class of machine learning frameworks invented by Ian Goodfellow and his colleagues in 2014 .
Backpropagation is applied in both networks so that the generator produces better images , while the discriminator becomes more skilled at flagging synthetic images .
The generator is typically a deconvolutional neural network , and the discriminator is a convolutional neural network .
For example , a GAN trained on the MNIST dataset containing many samples of each digit , might nevertheless timidly omit a subset of the digits from its output .
GANs can image restoration astronomical images
The sentences with WordNet and FrameNet annotations are also distributed as a part of the .
EuroMatrix explored using linguistic knowledge in statistical machine translation .
The consortium included the University of Edinburgh ( United Kingdom ) , Charles University ( Czech Republic ) , Saarland University ( Germany ) , Center for the Evaluation of Language and Communication Technologies ( Italy ) , MorphoLogic ( Hungary ) , and GROUP Technologies AG ( Germany ) .
EuroMatrixPlus succeeded a project called EuroMatrix ( September 2006 to February 2009 ) and continued in further development and improvement of machine translation ( MT ) systems for languages of the European Union ( EU ) .
The project worked on research in hybrid approaches to MT ( combination of rule-based and Statistical machine translation techniques ) .
Academic partners were the University of Edinburgh ( United Kingdom ) , DFKI - German Research Centre for Artificial Intelligence ( Germany ) , Charles University ( Czech Republic ) , Johns Hopkins University ( United States ) , University of Le Mans ( France ) , Fondazione Bruno Kessler ( Italy ) , Dublin City University ( Ireland ) .
The principal investigator and scientific coordinator was Hans Uszkoreit , a professor of Computational Linguistics at Saarland University .
He also describes the difference between the United States investment in genome research with that of China .
However , the programming language R has ready-to-use packages for calculating the BSTS model , which do not require strong mathematical background from a researcher .
This vector space model is presented in the theory as an equivalence to the well known word space model described in the Information retrieval literature .
The application of semantic spaces in natural language processing ( NLP ) aims at overcoming limitations of rule-based or model-based approaches operating on the keyword level .
Rule-based and machine learning -based models are fixed on the keyword level and break down if the vocabulary differs from that defined in the rules or from the training material used for the statistical models .
More recently , advances in neural networking techniques in combination with other new approaches ( tensor s ) led to a host of new recent developments : Word2vec from Stanford University .
On the other hand , some modern statistical software ( e.g. R ) have ready-to-use solutions for calculating various Bayesian variable selection models .
They may include direct interfaces to take data from cameras ( bypassing any off chip buffers ) , and have a greater emphasis on on-chip dataflow between many parallel execution units with scratchpad memory , like a manycore DSP .
But , like video processing units , they may have a focus on low precision fixed point arithmetic for image processing .
Target markets are robotics , the internet of things , new classes of digital cameras for virtual reality and augmented reality , smart camera s , and integrating machine vision acceleration into smartphone s and other mobile devices .
Instead of being based on phoneme recognition , Precise uses a trained recurrent neural network to distinguish between sounds which are , and which aren 't Wake Words .
Mycroft is partnering with Mozilla ' s Common Voice Project to leverage their DeepSpeech speech to text software .
For speech synthesis Mycroft uses Mimic , which is based on the Festival Lite speech synthesis system .
For example , espeak can be used instead of Mimic .
Agent mining is an interdisciplinary area that synergizes multiagent systems with data mining and machine learning .
Domain driven data mining is a data mining methodology for discovering actionable knowledge and deliver actionable insights from complex data and behavior s in a complex environment .
Data mining and knowledge discovery in databases Domain driven data mining is to enable the discovery and delivery of actionable knowledge and actionable insights .
Advanced pattern recognition algorithms can take these recordings and decode the unique EMG signal patterns generated by muscles during specific movements .
The first such device to reach production was designed by Diwakar Vaish , The wheelchair is of great importance to patients suffering from locked-in syndrome ( LIS ) , in which a patient is aware but cannot move or communicate verbally due to complete paralysis of nearly all voluntary muscles in the body except the eyes .
Viv is an intelligent personal assistant software created by the developers of Siri .
One notable legal technology chatbot application is DoNotPay .
Pavlidis studied at the National Technical University of Athens , where in 1957 he received his Diploma in Mechanical and Electrical Engineering degree .
Pavlidis conducted fundamental research in several computer software technology areas , including pattern recognition , image analysis , picture editing , optical character recognition , computer vision , and barcodes .
A Neural Turing machine ( NTMs ) is a recurrent neural network model .
The approach was published by Alex Graves et. al. in 2014 .
This is the Nick Kroll vandal .
Google Assistant is an artificial intelligence -powered , the Google Assistant can engage in two-way conversations .
Users primarily interact with the Google Assistant through natural language processing , though keyboard input is also supported .
Google Assistant was unveiled during Google 's developer conference on May 18 , 2016 , as part of the unveiling of the Google Home smart speaker and new messaging app Allo ; Google CEO Sundar Pichai explained that the Assistant was designed to be a conversational and two-way experience , and " an ambient experience that extends across devices .
On October 11 , 2019 , Google announced that Issa Rae had been added to Google Assistant as an optional voice , which could be enabled by the user by saying " Okay , Google , talk like Issa .
Unlike Google Now , however , the Assistant can engage in a two-way conversation , using Google 's natural language processing algorithm .
This feature of the speech recognition is available in English , among other languages .
At the annual I / O developers conference on May 8 , 2018 , Google 's SEO announced the addition of six new voice options for the Google Assistant , one of which being John Legend ' s .
As a default option , the Google Assistant doesn 't support two common features of the speech recognition on the transcribed texts , like punctuation and spelling .
After the announcement , concerns were made over the ethical and societal questions that artificial intelligence technology such as Duplex raises .
" PC World " nowiki / ' s Mark Hachman gave a favorable review of the Google Assistant , saying that it was a " step up on Cortana and Siri .
ULTRA is a machine translation system created for five languages ( Japanese , Chinese , Spanish , English , and German ) in the Computing Research Laboratory in 1991 .
It uses Artificial intelligence as well as linguistic and logic programming methods .
Soft Robotics is the specific subfield of robotics dealing with constructing robots from highly compliant materials , similar to those found in living organisms .
The basis of Baymax concept comes from real life research on applications of soft robotics in the healthcare field , such as roboticist Christopher G. Atkeson work at Carnegie Mellon 's Robotics Institute .
F.R.I.D.A.Y. ( Female Replacement Intelligent Digital Assistant Youth ) is a fictional artificial intelligence appearing in American comic book s published by Marvel Comics .
In the Marvel Cinematic Universe , F.R.I.D.A.Y. was voiced by Kerry Condon in " Avengers : Age of Ultron " , " Captain America : Civil War " , " Spider-Man : Homecoming " , " Avengers : Infinity War " , and " Avengers : Endgame " .
A tensor processing unit ( TPU ) is an AI accelerator application-specific integrated circuit ( ASIC ) developed by Google specifically for neural network machine learning , particularly using Google 's own TensorFlow software .
The chip has been specifically designed for Google 's TensorFlow framework , a symbolic math library which is used for machine learning applications such as neural networks .
The machine learning runtime used to execute models on the Edge TPU is based on TensorFlow .
Air-Cobot ( " A " ircraft " I " nspection enhanced by sma " R " t & " C " ollaborative r " OBOT " ) is a French research and development project of a wheeled cobot able to inspect aircraft during maintenance operations .
Since the launch of the project , other solutions based on image processing began to be developed , such as EasyJet with a drone , the swarm of drones from Toulouse company Donecle and the Aircam project of the aerospace manufacturer Airbus .
Project finance is provided by banque publique d 'investissement , the Aquitaine Regional Council , the Pyrénées-Atlantiques Departemental Council , the Midi-Pyrénées Regional Council and by the European Union .
Another algorithm based on computer vision provides , in real-time , a lane marking detection .
The projected shapes are used for pattern recognition to detect those visual elements.ref group = A name = JovancevicICPRAM2016 / The other detection method used is based on the extraction of features with a Speeded Up Robust Features ( SURF ) approach .
The detection uses pattern recognition of regular shapes ( rectangles , circles , ellipses ) .
The feature extraction using speeded up robust features ( SURF ) is also able to perform the inspection of certain elements having two possible states , such as pitot probes or static port s being covered or not covered .
Founded in 2015 , Donecle , a Toulouse start-up company , has also launched a drone approach which was initially specialized in the detection of lightning strike s on aeroplanes .
The algorithms for automatic detection of defects , trained on existing images database with a machine learning software , are able to identify various elements : texture irregularities , pitot probe s , rivets , openings , text , defects , corrosion , oil stains .
In the same way , algorithm selection can be applied to many other math \ mathcal { NP } / math-hard problems ( such as Linear programming , CSP , AI planning , TSP , MAXSAT , QBF and answer set programming ) .
In machine learning , algorithm selection is better known as meta-learning .
As deep learning and artificial intelligence workloads rose in prominence in the 2010s , specialized hardware units were developed or adapted from existing products to accelerate these tasks .
As early as 1993 , digital signal processor s were used as neural network accelerators e.g. to accelerate optical character recognition software .
ANNA was a neural net CMOS accelerator developed by Yann LeCun .
On 30 September 2012 , a convolutional neural network ( CNN ) called AlexNet
They presented their database for the first time as a poster at the 2009 Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition ( CVPR ) in Florida .
ImageNet uses a variant of the broad WordNet schema to categorize objects , augmented with 120 categories of dog breeds to showcase fine-grained classification .
Upon preliminary examination of the " panorama " of industrial robot s , it was shownS .
The vast majority of industrial Serial manipulator and parallel manipulator s fall into the category where math \ beta0.2 / math .
In May 2016 , NtechLab was admitted to the official testing of biometrics technology by NIST among the three Russian companies .
FindFace employs a Facial recognition system neural network
AVS provides cloud-based automatic speech recognition ( ASR ) and natural language understanding ( NLU ) .
The voice of Amazon Alexa is generated by a long short-term memory artificial neural network .
The service is available in the United States , Canada , Spain , France , Ireland , Germany , Italy and the United Kingdom .
Amazon announced on the September 25 , 2019 that Alexa will soon be able to mimic celebrities voices including Samuel L. Jackson , costing $ 0.99 for each voice .
On November 30 , 2016 Amazon announced that they will make the speech recognition and natural language processing technology behind Alexa available for developers under the name of Amazon Lex .
During the Chris Watts interrogation / interview video at timestamp 16 : 15 : 15 , Watts was told by the interrogator , " We know that there 's an Alexa in your house , and you know those are trained to record distress , " indicating Alexa may send recordings to Amazon if certain frequencies and decibels ( that can only be heard during intense arguments or screams ) are detected .
Prisma is a photo-editing mobile application that uses neural network and artificial intelligence to apply artistic effects to transform images .
The algorithm that powers the app is based on the open source programming and algorithms behind DeepArt .
Connect is a new social network analysis software data mining computer system developed by HMRC ( UK ) that cross-references business 's and people 's tax records with other databases to establish fraudulent or undisclosed ( misdirected ) activity .
Thomas G. Dietterich is emeritus professor of computer science at Oregon State University .
He is one of the founders of the field of machine learning .
For many years , he was the editor of the MIT Press series on Adaptive Computation and Machine Learning .
He also held the position of co-editor of the Morgan Claypool Synthesis Series on Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning .
First , he is interested in the fundamental questions of artificial intelligence and how machine learning can provide the basis for building integrated intelligent systems .
And third , he is interested in applying machine learning to problems in the ecological sciences and ecosystem management as part of the emerging field of computational sustainability .
His current focus is on ways that computer science methods can help advance ecological science and improve our management of the Earth 's ecosystems .
For example , Dietterich 's research is helping scientists at the Cornell Lab of Ornithology answer questions like : How do birds decide to migrate north ? How do they know when to land and stopover for a few days ? How do they choose where to make a nest ? Tens of thousands of volunteer birdwatchers ( citizen scientists ) all over the world contribute data to the study by submitting their bird sightings to the eBird website .
Machine learning can uncover patterns in data to model the migration of species .
Since then , dgp has hosted many well known faculty and students in computer graphics , computer vision and HCI ( e.g. , Alain Fournier , Bill Reeves , Jos Stam , Demetri Terzopoulos , Marilyn Tremaine ) .
dgp also occasionally hosts artists in residence ( e.g. , Oscar -winner Chris Landreth ICCV .
In March 2014 Aronson began working on the project full-time funded by a grant from the Shuttleworth Foundation .
Objective Vision ( " Object Oriented Visionary " ) is a project mainly aimed at real-time computer vision and simulation vision of living creatures .
The Hoshen-Kopelman algorithm is a simple and efficient algorithm for labeling Cluster analysis on a grid , where the grid is a regular network of cells , with the cells being either occupied or unoccupied .
Percolation theory is the study of the behavior and statistics of cluster analysis on lattices .
The research indicates that cultural factors influence the process of perception not just on lower-level ( such as object perception and attention deployment ) , but also on the higher-order functions ( such as theory of mind and emotion recognition ) .
For the study , United States and Japan ese were taken as subjects .
He was awarded honorary doctorates from the National University of Distance Education ( UNED ) in Madrid in 2013 and the University of Antwerp in 2015 .
In 2007 Levandowski joined Google to work on Google Street View with Sebastian Thrun , whom he had met at the 2005 DARPA Grand Challenge .
Keras is an open-source neural-network library written in Python .
It is capable of running on top of TensorFlow , Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit , R , Theano , or PlaidML .
As a subset of motion planning , it is an important part of robotics as it allows robots to find the optimal path to a target .
Machine learning
Klaus-Robert Müller ( born 1964 in Karlsruhe , Germany ) is a Germany physicist and Computer science , most noted for his work in Machine Learning and Brain-Computer Interface s .
Klaus-Robert Müller received his Diplom in mathematical physics and Ph.D. in theoretical computer science from the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology .
From 1994 to 1995 he was a research fellow at Shun 'ichi Amari s lab at the University of Tokyo .
1999 Müller became an associate professor for neuroinformatics at the University of Potsdam , transitioning to the full professorship for Neural Networks and Time Series Analysis in 2003 .
Since 2006 he holds the chair for Machine Learning at the Technical University Berlin .
Since 2012 he holds a distinguished professorship at Korea University in Seoul .
He has contributed extensively to several major interests of Machine Learning , including Support Vector Machine s and Kernel method s , and Neural Network s .
Klaus-Robert Müller was elected a fellow of the Academy of Sciences Leopoldina in 2012 .
He was also director of the company 's Artificial Intelligence , Education Technology and Training Systems Division .
Vilson James-Lukas Vattanirappel ( born 4 November 1992 ) is an Austria n male badminton player .
With incidents such as drones crashing into crop duster s , it was vital for the FAA and the AFBF ( American Farm Bureau Federation ) to agree on regulations that would allow the beneficial use of such drones in a safe and efficient manner .
Because it is used at South Korea as a reference / source of the country that ' ranks highly in personal safety ' , but one user said that Numbeo is not a reliable source when / span 10 : 24 , 12 October 2016 ( UTC )
In 1994 Ron entered The Technion - Israel Institute of Technology in Haifa , Israel , where he earned a bachelor 's degree in Computer Science .
Ron co-founded Otto with Anthony Levandowski , who faces a lawsuit from Google 's parent company .
The model was published in 2016 by Alex Graves et al. of DeepMind .
On graph traversal and sequence-processing tasks with supervised learning , DNCs performed better than alternatives such as long short-term memory or a neural turing machine .
This structure allows DNCs to be more robust and abstract than a NTM , and still perform tasks that have longer-term dependencies than some predecessors such as Long Short Term Memory ( Long short-term memory ) .
This makes it possible to optimize them efficiently using gradient descent .
Picas is free art photo editing application which uses deep neural network and artificial intelligence to automatically redraw photos to artistic effects .
The app transforms pictures into artistic effects with the help of artificial intelligence and deep neural network algorithm on their server , and no photos will be saved as the developer stated .
The VEX Robotics Competition is a robotics competition for elementary through university students .
During the VEX Robotics World Championship , a " Parade of Nations " is held in Freedom Hall that includes hundreds of students from more than 30 countries .
Cooperative coevolution is a broad class of evolutionary algorithm s where a complex problem is solved by decomposing it into subcomponents that are solved independently .
Similar internal evolutionary engines are considered in classical evolutionary algorithm , cooperative coevolutionary algorithm and Parisian evolution .
It was founded in May 2015 by Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur graduates Sachin Jaiswal , Keshav Prawasi , Shishir Modi and Nitin Babel .
The product is an artificial intelligence -powered chatbot which works as an intelligent personal assistant , named Niki .
Leveraging natural language processing and machine learning , Niki presents a chat-based deciphers the words , in the context of product / services that they would like to purchase , and comes up with apt recommendations .
Hi , I 'm Sterling , International Justice Mission ' s digital marketing manager .
The principal component analysis / empirical orthogonal function analysis ( PCA / EOF ) has been widely used in data analysis and image compression , its main objective is to reduce a data set containing a large number of variables to a data set containing fewer variables , but that still represents a large fraction of the variability contained in the original data set .
In statistics , EOF analysis is known as principal component analysis ( PCA ) .
The Arabic Speech Corpus is a Modern Standard Arabic ( MSA ) speech corpus for speech synthesis .
The corpus was mainly built for speech synthesis purposes , specifically Speech Synthesis , but the corpus has been used for building HMM based voices in Arabic .
In machine learning , Littlestone applied the earliest form of the multiplicative weights update rule in his famous winnow algorithm , which is similar to Minsky and Papert 's earlier perceptron learning algorithm .
The multiplicative weights algorithm is also widely applied in computational geometry such as Clarkson 's algorithm for Linear programming with a bounded number of variables in linear time .
AdaBoost
The multiplicative weights algorithm is also widely applied in computational geometry ref name = ref4 / , such as Clarkson ' s algorithm for Linear programming with a bounded number of variables in linear time .
Developed originally by Dave Theurer , one of the original Atari coin operated engineers ( with Tempest and Missile Command credits ) , and originally released in 1992 on Macintosh , the product was expanded by Equilibrium 's internal development team , headed up by Brian Rice , and was actively developed for over 20 years .
It was the first commercial speech synthesis software able to speak Italian .
" Quick , Draw ! " is an online game developed by Google that challenges players to draw a picture of an object or idea and then uses a neural network artificial intelligence to guess what the drawings represent .
Kumiko Tanaka-Ishii ( born 1969 ) is a computational linguist and an associate professor in the Department of Creative Informatics at the Graduate School of Information Science and Technology at the University of Tokyo , Japan .
Cognitive Technologies was founded in 1993 by Olga Uskova and Vladimir Arlazarov .
Apache MXNet is a lean , flexible , and ultra-scalable deep learning framework that supports state of the art in deep learning models , including convolutional neural network s ( CNNs ) and long short-term memory networks ( LSTMs ) .
Supports C + + for the optimized backend to get the most of the GPU or CPU available , and Python , R , Scala , Clojure , Julia , Perl , MATLAB and JavaScript for a simple frontend for the developers .
Parallel multidimensional digital signal processing ( mD-DSP ) is defined as the application of parallel programming and multiprocessing to digital signal processing techniques to process digital signals that have more than a single dimension .
if the function to minimize is for example the mean power the residual error , mathJ = E | \ epsilon _ k | ^ 2 / math , the adapting Gradient descent prescribes that the coefficients are updated after every time step mathk / math as :
" The platform uses the company 's patented 3D spatio-temporal platform that uses advanced sensor fusion , machine learning and computer vision algorithms and part of the platform is built into the Fyuse app .
Zhou Zhi-Hua ( ; born November 20 , 1973 ) is a Professor of Computer Science at Nanjing University .
Sauer made his debut for Canada in an October 1973 friendly match against Luxembourg and earned a total of 4 caps , scoring no goals .
It is a basic concept in machine learning .
She also spent time in Ethiopia , working with local partners to create game clubs that help girls acquire the social capital and the skills they need to solve their problems for themselves .
In 2014 she was selected as a World Economic Forum Young Scientist .
In deterministic dynamic programming one usually deals with functional equation s taking the following structure
An introduction to Reinforcement learning is provided by .
Google Neural Machine Translation ( GNMT ) is a neural machine translation ( NMT ) system developed by Google and introduced in November 2016 , that uses an artificial neural network to increase fluency and accuracy in Google Translate .
GNMT improves on the quality of translation by applying an example-based ( EBMT ) machine translation method in which the system " learns from millions of examples .
In September 2016 , a research team at Google announced the development of the Google Neural Machine Translation system ( GNMT ) and by November Google Translate began using neural machine translation ( NMT ) in preference to its previous Statistical machine translation ( SMT )
Google Translate 's NMT system uses a large artificial neural network capable of deep learning .
Geometry processing is the application of signal processing techniques to the domain of curves and surfaces .
Related categories : computer graphics , image processing and geometry
Pix4D is a Swiss company which started in 2011 as a spinoff of the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne ( EPFL ) Computer Vision Lab in Switzerland.Mitchell , Michael .
This is a table of some of the machine learning methods used on the database and their error rates , by type of classifier :
The British Automation and Robot Association ( BARA ) is the trade association that represents robotics and automation in the UK .
Also in the same building is the UK Industrial Vision Association , for image processing technology in manufacturing industry .
It is a member of the German-based International Federation of Robotics .
In July 2016 , Nvidia demonstrated during SIGGRAPH a new method of foveated rendering claimed to be invisible to users .
According to chief scientist Michael Abrash at Oculus , utilising foveated rendering in conjunction with sparse rendering and deep learning image reconstruction has the potential to require only one twentieth of the pixels to be rendered in comparison to a full image .
It has applications in computer vision , and it is commonly used in visual correspondence problem s such as optical flow calculation and disparity estimation.Hafner et al .
The robot has the capacity for Voice Interaction , Facial recognition system , Voice Localization , Video Chat , Obstacle Avoidance and Auto charging , giving users feeling of Magic Audio-visual .
INTERNAL HARDWARE : Sanbot King Kong wields six built-in microphones in its head and it has a strong speech recognition program that separates background noise in busy and loud areas .
In December 2019 , Preferred Networks announced the transition of its development effort from Chainer to PyTorch and it will only provide maintenance patches after releasing v7 .
Theano and TensorFlow are among the notable frameworks that took this approach .
ChainerRL adds state of art deep reinforcement learning algorithms , and ChainerUI is a management and visualization tool .
The list below is a redlist of women who are alumni and / or employees of the University of Buenos Aires , for which Wikipedia lacks a biography article .
The list below is a redlist of women who are alumni and / or employees of Yerevan State University , Armenia , for which Wikipedia lacks a biography article .
The Greedy Triangulation is a method to compute a polygon triangulation or a Point set triangulation using a greedy algorithm , which adds edges one by one to the solution in strict increasing order by length , with the condition that an edge cannot cut a previously inserted edge .
Physician Harriet Hall reviewing the book for " Skeptical Inquirer " magazine , said that " Dennett is always worth reading , and this latest book distills his current thinking and all he has learned over the years .
Zo was an artificial intelligence English-language chatbot developed by Microsoft .
These toys , which may or may not be smart toy s , provide a more personalized play experience for children through embedded software that can offer app integration , speech recognition and / or image recognition , RFID functionality , and web searching functions .
In early 2017 , Germany 's Federal Network Agency , Federal Network Agency , has placed a ban on the sale and possession of the connected toy My Friend Cayla produced by Genesis Toys , claiming the toy to be an unsafe and unauthorized information transmission device .
The Electronic Privacy Information Center , the Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood , the .
While the automation of manual labour has been contemplated since before the industrial revolution , the issue has received increased discussion in the 21st century due to newer developments such as machine learning .
GRNN has been implemented in many computer languages including MATLAB , R- programming language , Python ( programming language ) and Node.js .
PRAC ( Probabilistic Action Cores ) is an natural language understanding instructions for robotics applications developed at the Institute for Artificial Intelligence at the University of Bremen , Germany , and is supported in parts by the European Commission and the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft .
It is the official journal of the International Social Cognition Network .
Nowadays , this discussion covers the entire range of programmable , intelligent and / or autonomous machines , drones as well as automation technology combined with Big Data and artificial intelligence .
Robotic governance was first mentioned in the scientific community within a dissertation project at the Technical University of Munich , supervised by Professor Dr. emeritus Klaus Mainzer .
At the same event , Oussama Khatib , American roboticist and director of the Stanford robotics lab , advocated to emphasize the user acceptance when producing intelligent and autonomous machines .
Hiroshi Ishiguro , inventor of the Geminoid and head of the Intelligent Robotics Laboratory at the University of Osaka , showed during the RoboBusiness Conference 2016 in Odense that it is impossible to stop technical progress .
Nick Chater is Professor of Behavioural Science at Warwick Business School , who works on rationality and language using a range of theoretical and experimental approaches .
He is a Fellow of the Cognitive Science Society and the British Academy .
Machine learning is a subfield of soft computing within computer science that evolved from the study of pattern recognition and computational learning theory in artificial intelligence .instructions .
Reinforcement learning
Supervised learning
Unsupervised learning
Cluster analysis
Semi-supervised learning
Deep learning
Comaniciu is best known for his work in computer vision , , R & D Magazine , 2015
CAFFE ( Convolutional Architecture for Fast Feature Embedding ) is a deep learning framework , originally developed at University of California , Berkeley .
Caffe supports many different types of deep learning architectures geared towards image classification and image segmentation .
It supports Convolutional neural network , RCNN , LSTM and fully connected neural network designs .
In April 2017 , Facebook announced Caffe2 , which included new features such as Recurrent neural network .
At the end of March 2018 , Caffe2 was merged into PyTorch .
Samsung reported that Bixby would not be operational on the United States version of the Samsung Galaxy S8 and S8 + when the devices were first shipped to customers on 21 April 2017 .
Bixby Voice was intended to be made available in the United States on the Galaxy S8 and S8 + later that spring .
Chris Harrison is a British-born , American computer scientist and entrepreneur , working in the fields of human-computer interaction , machine learning and sensor-driven interactive systems .
He is a professor at Carnegie Mellon University a machine learning and interaction technology startup .
Harrison was born in 1984 in London , United Kingdom , but emigrated with his family to New York City in the United States at a young age .
Harrison actively participated in the Association for Computing Machinery programming competitions and engaged in a variety crafts .
Harrison obtained both a B.A. ( 2002-2005 ) and M.S. ( 2006 ) in Computer Science from the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences at New York University .
From 2009 to 2012 , Harrison was the Editor-in-Chief of Association for Computing Machinery ' s Crossroads magazine , which he relaunched as XRDS , the flagship magazine for the over 30,000 student members of the ACM .
In 2013 , Harrison became faculty at Carnegie Mellon University , founding the Future Interfaces Group within the Human-Computer Interaction Institute .
Harrison co-developed and co-wrote Crash Course Computer Science , a PBS Digital Studios -funded educational series hosted on YouTube .
This project was initiated following a discussion between Harrison and John Green at the World Economic Forum in 2016 , where both were guest speakers .
In computer science transforming OIE extractions into ontological facts is known as Information extraction .
In fact , OIE can be seen as the first step to a wide range of deeper text understanding tasks such as relation extraction , knowledge-base construction , question answering , semantic role labeling .
The neural substrates of embodied cognition are often studied using the cognitive tasks of object recognition , action recognition , working memory tasks , and language comprehension tasks .
In 1997 , Yandex began research into natural language processing , machine learning and recommendation systems .
According to data from April 2017 , Zen is available in more than 50 languages in more than 100 countries , including the United States , India and Brazil .
Monetization of the service is due to ad blocks built into the news feeds ( in Russia , ads are served by Yandex.Direct ) .
Ervin Sejdic is a researcher at the Swanson School of Engineering , University of Pittsburgh ,
Sejdic 's early research revolved around signal processing , specifically the area of time-frequency analysis .
ChatScript was written by Bruce Wilcox and originally released in 2011 , after Suzette ( written in ChatScript ) won the 2010 Loebner Prize , fooling one of four human judges .
ChatScript comes with a copy of English WordNet embedded within , including its ontology , and creates and extends its own ontology via concept declarations .
In 1985 he changed fields to work in computer science , and currently undertakes research in the use of graph-based methods in computer vision , pattern recognition and complex networks .
In 2016 he was appointed Editor-in-Chief of the journal " Pattern Recognition " .
Optical methods represent a set of Computer vision and tracking devices such as a camera of visible or infrared range , a stereo camera and a depth camera .
Matroid , Inc. is a Computer vision company that offers a platform for creating computer vision models , called detectors , to search visual media for objects , persons , events , emotions , and actions .
Soatto 's research focuses on Computer vision , Machine learning and Robotics .
He co-developed optimal algorithms for Structure From Motion ( SFM , or Visual SLAM , simultaneous localization and mapping , in Robotics ; Best Paper Award at Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition 1998 ) , characterized its ambiguities ( David Marr Prize at ICCV 1999 ) , also characterized the identifiability and observability of visual-inertial sensor fusion ( Best Paper Award at Robotics 2015 ) .
like artificial intelligence and robot control .
They are all based on recent breakthroughs in the domains of ( deep ) machine learning and artificial intelligence .
As an example , the autonomous car both addresses the main existing safety issues and creates new issues .
She studied mathematics at the University of Belgrade and then moved to the Netherlands in 1992 to study informatics .
In 2011 Pantić received the British Computer Society Roger Needham Award .
In 2019 Pantić was elected a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering ( FREng ) .
Recommender system s are information filtering system s which attempt to predict the rating or preference that a user would give , based on ratings that similar users gave and ratings that the user gave on previous occasions .
Researchers at a 2010 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers ( IEEE ) conference discussed the need of a reliable fine-grained dataset of previous user-attendance in order to provide social-event detection .
In addition , because of its non-recursive nature which preserves the phase angles of the input , linear filters are usually used in image processing , video processing , data processing or pattern detection .
Machine learning , a subfield of computer science involving the development of algorithms that learn how to make predictions based on data , has a number of emerging applications in the field of bioinformatics .
Three-dimensional Convolutional neural network and SVM methods are often used .
Machine learning can be used for this knowledge extraction task using techniques such as natural language processing to extract the useful information from human-generated reports in a database .
In Digital signal processing , a channelizer is a term used for algorithms which select a certain frequency band from an input signal .
Whereas the kNN classifier supports binary classification , multiclass classification and regression , the Structured kNN ( SkNN ) allows training of a classifier for general structured output labels .
After obtaining a labeled dataset , machine learning models can be applied to the data so that new unlabeled data can be presented to the model and a likely label can be guessed or predicted for that piece of unlabeled data.Johnson , Leif .
The Persian Speech Corpus is a Modern Persian speech corpus for speech synthesis .
It is distributed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License .
The corpus was built for speech synthesis purposes , but has been used for building Hidden Markov model based voices in Persian .
Generating speech from text is an increasingly common task thanks to the popularity of software such as Apple 's Siri , Microsoft 's Cortana , Amazon Alexa and the Google Assistant .
WaveNet is a type of feedforward neural network known as a deep convolutional neural network ( CNN ) .
Scanitto Pro is Windows -based software application for image scanning , direct printing and copying , basic editing and text recognition ( OCR ) .
During the first years after invention , the software got the criticism from the independent reviewers for the absence of Optical character recognition features .
is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal covering data warehousing and data mining .
The editor-in-chief is David Taniar ( Monash University , Australia ) .
" Dredd " is a 2012 science fiction action film directed by Pete Travis and written and produced by Alex Garland , released first on 11 July at the San Diego Comic-Con , and worldwide that September .
Karl Urban " ( pictured ) " stars as Judge Dredd ( based on the " 2000 AD " comic book character ) , a law enforcer given the power of judge , jury and executioner in a vast , post-apocalyptic metropolis called Mega-City One .
Dredd and his apprentice partner , Judge Anderson ( Olivia Thirlby ) , are instructed to bring order to a 200-storey high-rise block of flats and deal with its resident drug lord , Ma-Ma ( Lena Headey ) .
FaceApp is a mobile application for iOS and Android developed by Russia company Wireless Lab .
He holds the chair of Systems & Control at Eindhoven University of Technology ( TU / e ) , where he is Distinguished University Professor .
Maarten Steinbuch studied Mechanical Engineering at Delft University of Technology where he graduated cum laude in 1984 and obtained his PhD in 1989 .
With his research in the fields of systems and control and mechatronics , Steinbuch has made significant contributions to domains such as high-tech motion systems , robotics , nuclear fusion , and automotive engineering .
His group is well known for developing and applying principles for the mechanical design of high-tech systems ( ' design for stiffness ' ) which enabled the high reproducibility and low-cost manufacturing of such systems , which has benefited the high-tech industry in the Brainport Eindhoven University of Technology region ( ASML , Philips , Océ , FEI , and various SMEs ) .
Could possibly be summarized and merged into United States Association of Blind Athletes .
In 1977 , he took up a post at the Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics .
His research primarily concerns computer vision and pattern recognition .
He earned a master 's degree in 1974 from the Indian Institute of Science , and completed a Ph.D. in computer science in 1979 from the University of Maryland , College Park , advised by Azriel Rosenfeld .
American Association for the Advancement of Science ,
Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence ,
Association for Computing Machinery ,
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers ,
A grid search algorithm must be guided by some performance metric , typically measured by cross-validation on the training setChin-Wei Hsu , Chih-Chung Chang and Chih-Jen Lin ( 2010 ) .
For example , a typical soft-margin support vector machine classifier equipped with an RBF kernel has at least two hyperparameters that need to be tuned for good performance on unseen data : a regularization constant " C " and a kernel hyperparameter γ .
Oxbotica is an autonomous vehicle software company , headquartered in Oxfordshire , England , and founded by Paul Newman and Ingmar Posner .
As part of the GATEway Project in 2017 , Oxbotica trialled seven autonomous shuttle buses in Greenwich , navigating a two-mile riverside path near London 's The O2 Arena on a route also used by pedestrians and cyclists .
In 2018 , Oxbotica deployed its autonomous vehicle software at London 's Gatwick Airport , which subsequently became the first airport in the world to trial an autonomous shuttle service .
The application of semantic spaces in natural language processing ( NLP ) aims at overcoming limitations of rule-based or model-based approaches operating on the keyword level .
Rule-based and machine learning based models are fixed on the keyword level and break down if the vocabulary differs from that defined in the rules or from the training material used for the statistical models .
More recently , advances in neural networking techniques in combination with other new approaches ( tensor s ) led to a host of new recent developments : Word2vec from Facebook AI Research ( FAIR ) labs .
MeCab is an open-source text segmentation library for use with text written in the Japanese language originally developed by the Nara Institute of Science and Technology and currently maintained by Taku Kudou ( 工藤拓 ) as part of his work on the Google Japanese Input project .
Connectionist temporal classification ( CTC ) is a type of neural network output and associated scoring function , for training recurrent neural network s ( RNNs ) such as Long short-term memory networks to tackle sequence problems where the timing is variable .
It can be used for tasks like on-line handwriting recognition
Alternative approaches to a CTC-fitted neural network include a hidden Markov model ( HMM ) .
Here , the applicability of fusion of different video quality metrics using support vector machine s ( SVM ) has been investigated , leading to a " FVQA ( Fusion-based Video Quality Assessment ) Index " that has been shown to outperform existing image quality metrics on a subjective video quality database .
An early version of VMAF has been shown to outperform other image and video quality metrics such as SSIM , PSNR -HVS and VQM-VFD on three of four datasets in terms of prediction accuracy , when compared to subjective ratings .
A reference implementation written in C and Python ( " VMAF Development Kit , VDK " ) is published as free software under the terms of BSD + Patent license ( /
She is a professor of computational intelligence at Edinburgh Napier University , editor-in-chief of the " Journal of Evolutionary Computation " ( MIT Press ) , and D. Coordinator of the Future & Emerging Technologies ( FET ) Proactive Initiative , Fundamentals of Collective Adaptive Systems .
In 2000 Hart took a position as a lecturer at Edinburgh Napier University , and was promoted to a Reader , Professor , and in 2008 Chair in Natural Computation .
" She also undertakes research in three main areas : " " optimisation " , " self-organising / self-adaptive systems " , " and artificial intelligence " .
It promotes STEM education and careers for youth and was created by Dean Kamen in 2016 as an expansion of FIRST , an organization with similar objectives .
In the regulation of algorithm s , particularly artificial intelligence and its subfield of machine learning , a right to explanation ( or right to " an " explanation ) is a right to be given an explanation for an output of the algorithm .
In France the 2016 " Loi pour une République numérique " ( Digital Republic Act or " loi numérique " ) amends the country 's administrative code to introduce a new provision for the explanation of decisions made by public sector bodies about individuals .
For example , the output of a deep neural network depends on many layers of computations , connected in a complex way , and no one input or computation may be a dominant factor .
By assuming that the background image is shown in the majority of the video , the algorithm is able to generate a good background image of a video in mathO ( R ) / math-time using only a small number of binary operations and Boolean Bit operations , which require a small amount of memory and has built-in operators found in many programming languages such as C , C + + , and Java .
Once foreground images are extracted , then desired algorithms ( such as those for Video tracking , object tracking , and facial recognition system ) may be executed using these images .
More recently , automatic background generation through object detection , medial filtering , medoid filtering , approximated median filtering , linear predictive filter , non-parametric model , Kalman filter , and adaptive smoothening have been suggested ; however , most of these methods have high computational complexity and are resource-intensive .
Paul Kruszewski ( born 1967 ) is a Canadian Artificial intelligence technologist and serial entrepreneur known for his work in artificial intelligence and computer graphics .
Kruszewski completed his bachelor 's degree in computer science at the University of Alberta .
Image processing and machine learning algorithms analyse the images .
In January 2013 , the French research and development project Air-Cobot began to develop a collaborative mobile robot capable of inspecting an aircraft during maintenance operations .
Image processing algorithms perform the first step of detecting any region of interest on the fuselage .
The recognition algorithm is based on machine learning from the annotated databases of previous flights .
The effectiveness of deep learning algorithms depends on the representativeness and the quantity of examples in each class .
To overcome this difficulty , Donecle has done research to extend image annotations , using classical image processing techniques and generative adversarial network s .
In image based techniques , an image is image segmentation into multiple segments .
Machine learning approaches such as support vector machine and convolutional neural networks are used to classify the components into text and non-text .
Either an off the shelf Optical character recognition ( OCR ) engine Abbyy Fine Reader .
Faugeras was born in Neuilly-sur-Seine , France and attended the Lycée Louis-le-Grand .
He graduated in mathematics and physics from the École Polytechnique in 1971 and attended the École Nationale Supérieure des Télécommunications for his masters in electrical engineering in 1973 .
In 1989 he received the Institut de France Fondation Fiat award from the French Academy of Sciences for his contributions in computer vision .
META is the first wearable device based on cloud framework of CloudMinds , which takes the shape of helmet for visually impaired people to support face recognition , object recognition , path planning and obstacle avoidance , etc .
Documenting Hate is a project of ProPublica , in collaboration with a number of journalistic , academic , and computing organizations , for systematic tracking of hate crime s and bias incident s .
The API uses machine learning and natural language processing techniques .
A policy analyst for the Center for Data Innovation ( an affiliate of the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation ) , while supporting ProPublica 's critique of the present state of hate-crime statistics , and praising ProPublica for drawing attention to the problem , has argued that a nongovernmental project like Documenting Hate cannot solve it unaided ; instead , intervention at the federal level is needed .
He is a senior professor at the Saarland University .
Manfred Pinkal studied Linguistics , Philosophy , German Language and Literature , and Computer Science at the University of Bochum and University of Stuttgart .
He received his Ph.D. in Linguistics from the University of Stuttgart .
Since 1990 , he is teaching as a professor of Computational Linguistics at Saarland University .
Mihalcea 's lie-detection software uses machine learning techniques to analyze video clips of actual trials .
Currently , he is also the Director of Indian Institute of Technology Patna .
) and Masters from Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur ( M.Tech ) .
He finished his Ph.D. from Indian Institute of Technology Bombay in 1994 .
His research areas are Natural Language Processing , Artificial Intelligence , Machine Learning , Psycholinguistics , Eye Tracking , Information Retrieval , and Indian Language WordNets - IndoWordNet .
Philip K. Dick ' s novel " Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep ? " , the inspiration for " Blade Runner " , used the term android ( or " andy " ) rather than " replicant " ; " Blade Runner " director Ridley Scott requested a new , separate term that did not have preconceptions from David Peoples .
From that , either Peoples or his daughter ( each would recall later it was the other ) coined the term replicant , which was inserted into Hampton Fancher ' s screenplay.Interview with David Peoples in " Sacrificial Sheep : The Novel vs. the Film " .
The Spinner was designed by Syd Mead .
Director Martin Scorsese was interested in filming the novel , but never optioned it.Bukatman , p .
The screenplay by Hampton Fancher ! --Not titled " Android " initially - See Sammon , pp. 32 and 38 for explanation-- was optioned in 1977.Sammon , pp. 23-30 Producer Michael Deeley became interested in Fancher 's draft and convinced director Ridley Scott to film it .
Eventually he hired David Peoples to rewrite the script and Fancher left the job over the issue on December 21 , 1980 , although he later returned to contribute additional rewrites.Sammon , pp. 49-63
In ten days Deeley had secured $ 21.5 million in financing through a three-way deal between The Ladd Company ( through Warner Bros. ) , the Hong Kong-based producer Run Run Shaw and Tandem Productions .Bukatman , pp. 18-19 ; Sammon , pp. 64-67
In June 2009 , " The New York Times " reported that Scott and his brother , director Tony Scott , were working on a series of 5-10 minute shorts , " Purefold " , inspired by " Blade Runner " and aimed first at the web and then perhaps television .
Producer Andrew Kosove suggested that Harrison Ford , who had starred in the original film , was unlikely to be involved .
On April 16 , 2015 , Ryan Gosling entered negotiations for a role in a " Blade Runner " sequel. with the film set for release on October 6 , 2017 .
During an interview with " Yahoo ! " during a promotional tour for the 2015 film " The Martian " , Ridley Scott expressed interest in making additional films .
On August 29 , 2017 , Denis Villeneuve , director of " Blade Runner 2049 " , announced that he had organized for two filmmakers to direct several short films exploring incidents that occurred between the events of " Blade Runner " and " Blade Runner 2049 " .
The film stars Jared Leto as Niander Wallace and Benedict Wong as Lawmaker , following him as he presents a new Nexus-9 replicant to the lawmakers in an attempt to have a prohibition on replicants lifted .
Despite being well received by fans and critically acclaimed and nominated in 1983 for a British Academy of Film and Television Arts and Golden Globe for Best Original Score , and the promise of a soundtrack album from Polydor Records in the end titles of the film , the release of the official soundtrack recording was delayed for over a decade .
In 1994 , K. W. Jeter , a personal friend of Philip K. Dick , began developing a series of " Blade Runner " novels that would serve as a continuation of both the film " Blade Runner " , and the novel upon which it was based , " Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep ? " .
In 1996 , K. W. Jeter published science fiction novel " Blade Runner 3 : Replicant Night " , the sequel to " Blade Runner 2 : The Edge of Human " .
" Blade Runner 4 : Eye and Talon " , also known as " Blade Runner 4 : Beyond Orion " , is the third novel written by K. W. Jeter that continues the storyline started in the 1982 " Blade Runner " film .
The PC game and VR game feature a non-linear plot , non-player character s that each ran in their own independent Artificial intelligence , and an unusual pseudo-3D engine ( which eschewed polygonal solids in favor of voxel elements ) that did not require the use of a 3D accelerator card to play the game .
In June 2009 , " The New York Times " reported that Scott and his brother , director Tony Scott , were working on a series of 5-10 minute shorts , " Purefold " , inspired by " Blade Runner " and aimed first at the web and then perhaps television .
" Soldier " is a 1998 American science fiction action film directed by Paul W. S. Anderson and written by David Peoples ( credited as David Webb Peoples ) .
Debates by the movie press and science fiction communities have suggested the " Blade Runner " and " Alien " films ( at least those in which Ridley Scott is involved ) may share a joint universe .
Recent franchise installments ( " Prometheus " and " Alien : Covenant " ) lean heavily toward the themes of artificial intelligence and humanoid robots as opposed to ' creature features ' .
On December 12 , 2012 , in celebration of the 30th anniversary of the release of " Blade Runner " , Joanna Cassidy , who portrayed the replicant Zhora Salome in the film , released a short film on her YouTube channel entitled " What Might Have Been : Snake Dance " .
Directed by Tamela D 'Amico , based on an unfilmed scene from " Blade Runner " written by Hampton Fancher and David Peoples , with Cassidy reprising her role as Zhora , the film depicts the replicant performing the " snake dance , " a dance Salome was stated to do for a living in " Blade Runner " .
The song " Touched A Dream " by R. Kelly plays over the course of the film .
Advances in the field of computational imaging research is presented in several venues including publications of SIGGRAPH and the .
In its initial release the project will support Caffe2 , PyTorch , MXNet and Microsoft CNTK Deep learning framework .
" BioData Mining " is a peer-reviewed open access scientific journal covering data mining methods applied to computational biology published by BioMed Central .
The goal is to generate lexical variants in Natural language processing of patient clinical documents .
Duringh his service in the Ministry for Foreign Affairs Stenius was the Chargé d 'Affaires to the Holy See from 1947 to 1951 , and an Secretary in the Ministry from 1951 to 1965 and Head of Division in 1965 and Counselor in London from 1969 to 1973 .
The " Femte Akten " book published in 1937 it tells about Olavi Paavolainen ' s visit to Nazi Germany with Stenius .
, is a transportation robotics company based in Cambridge , Massachusetts , that develops micromobility technologies for small-scale electric vehicles .
The Copenhagen Wheel is currently available in the continental United States .
It claimed that the technology had achieved " superhuman " performance on multiple Question answering problem sets .
These properties are explicitly added to the system , rather than established by learning just as the capacity to reason about spatial , translation-invariant properties is explicitly part of convolutional neural network s ( CNN ) .
" fφ " and " gθ " are multilayer perceptron s , while the 2 parameters are learnable synaptic weights .
Questions were processed with a long short-term memory network .
The Open Neural Network Exchange ( ONNX ) is an open-source artificial intelligence ecosystem .
In September 2017 Facebook and Microsoft introduced a system for switching between machine learning frameworks such as PyTorch and Caffe2 .
David Belt and partner Scott Cohen formed the concept for New Lab in 2011 after prospecting the decaying Building 128 with Navy Yard president David Ehrenberg .
Data integration with OSIsoft Vision is supported , and the REST API has SDKs for programming in C # , Python , MatLab , and Java .
AlphaGo Zero is a version of DeepMind ' s Go software AlphaGo .
Training artificial intelligence ( AI ) without datasets derived from human experts has significant implications for the development of AI with superhuman skills because expert data is " often expensive , unreliable or simply unavailable .
Google later developed AlphaZero , a generalized version of AlphaGo Zero that could play chess and Shōgi in addition to Go .
AlphaZero also defeated a top chess program ( Stockfish ) and a top Shōgi program ( Elmo ) .
AlphaGo Zero 's neural network was trained using TensorFlow , with 64 GPU workers and 19 CPU parameter servers .
The neural network initially knew nothing about Go beyond the rules .
The AI engaged in reinforcement learning , playing against itself until it could anticipate its own moves and how those moves would affect the game 's outcome .
Oren Etzioni of the Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence called AlphaGo Zero " a very impressive technical result " in " both their ability to do it - and their ability to train the system in 40 days , on four TPUs .
Gary Marcus , a psychologist at New York University , has cautioned that for all we know , AlphaGo may contain " implicit knowledge that the programmers have about how to construct machines to play problems like Go " and will need to be tested in other domains before being sure that its base architecture is effective at much more than playing Go .
On 5 December 2017 , DeepMind team released a preprint on arXiv , introducing AlphaZero , a program using generalized AlphaGo Zero 's approach , which achieved within 24 hours a superhuman level of play in chess , shogi , and Go , defeating world-champion programs , Stockfish , Elmo , and 3-day version of AlphaGo Zero in each case .
Machine learning is extremely important for resume parsing .
This leads us to Machine Learning and specifically Natural Language Processing ( NLP ) .
NLP is a branch of Artificial intelligence and it uses Machine Learning to understand content and context as well as make predictions.Reynolds , Brandon .
Acronym normalization and Part-of-speech tagging accounts for the different possible formats of acronyms and normalizes them .
Lemmatization reduces words to their root using a language dictionary and Stemming removes " s , " " ing , " etc .
With recent advancements in AI sophistication and Machine Learning , and the text mining and analysis processes improvements , which ensure up to 95 % accuracy Google 's own invention , which is another iteration of the smart AI resume builder and matching system .
AlphaGo is a computer Go program developed by DeepMind .
DoNotPay is a legal services chatbot founded by Joshua Browder , a British-American entrepreneur .
As a " robot lawyer , " DoNotPay is a downloadable mobile app that makes use of artificial intelligence to provide legal services to all users free of charge .
Originally , Browder had created an app that allowed users in the United Kingdom to protest their parking tickets .
Some replies have been nonsensical , while others have impressed interviewers such as " 60 Minutes ' " Charlie Rose .
On October 11 , 2017 , Sophia was introduced to the United Nations with a brief conversation with the United Nations Deputy Secretary-General , Amina J. Mohammed .
In January 2018 , Facebook 's director of artificial intelligence , Yann LeCun , tweeted that Sophia was " complete bullshit " and slammed the media for giving coverage to " Potemkin AI .
Alongside this , they have launched a number of consultation reports addressing ethical scenarios in the field of robotics .
Netomi , formerly msg.ai , is an American artificial intelligence company and developer of human-computer interaction technologies .
Netomi utilizes artificial intelligence to automate customized messages and engage in natural dialogues with deep reinforcement learning .
Text Nailing ( TN ) is an information extraction method of semi-automatically extracting structured information from unstructured documents .
The identified expressions can be used then to enhance computational methods that rely on text ( e.g. , Regular expression ) as well as advanced natural language processing ( NLP ) techniques .
In traditional machine learning approaches for text classification , a human expert is required to label phrases or entire notes , and then a supervised learning algorithm attempts to generalize the associations and apply them to new data .
TN was developed at Massachusetts General Hospital and was tested in multiple scenarios including the extraction of smoking status , family history of coronary artery disease , identifying patients with sleep disorders ,
In March 2014 , the company launched its first product , the Haptik app which is a chat-based personal assistant which lets its users to get things done for Android and iOS platforms in India .
In March 2018 , the company partnered With Amazon Web Services ( AWS ) to offer Al-enabled conversational solutions to customers in India .
Haptik 's repertoire of chatbot customers in India includes Samsung ,
The platform app runs on uses artificial intelligence ( Al ) , machine learning to deliver fast , precise results .
Haptik has open sourced its proprietary Named Entity Recognition system that powers the chatbots behind Haptik app at the Chatbot Summit held in Berlin on June 26 , 2017 .
The knowledge that makes Leela Zero a strong player is contained in a neural network , which is trained based on the results of previous games that the program played .
In early 2018 , another team branched Leela Chess Zero from the same code base , also to verify the methods in the AlphaZero paper as applied to the game of chess .
In his 1976 book " Computer Power and Human Reason " , Artificial intelligence pioneer Joseph Weizenbaum suggested that bias could arise both from the data used in a program , but also from the way a program is coded .
Additional complexity occurs through machine learning and the personalization of algorithms based on user interactions such as clicks , time spent on site , and other metrics .
These methods may also analyze a program 's output and its usefulness and therefore may involve the analysis of its confusion matrix ( or table of confusion ) .Models
The General Data Protection Regulation ( GDPR ) , the European Union ' s revised data protection regime that was implemented in 2018 , addresses " Automated individual decision-making , including profiling " in Article 22 .
This system is the backbone of openEASE. both under developing at the Institute for Artificial Intelligence at the University of Bremen , Germany .
As well by the Eindhoven University of Technology research group competing in the RoboCup league , in the " at Home " category , with the RoboEarth project .
As well , KnowRob is mentioned in the work of some research groups from the Lucian Blaga University of Sibiu , Flaviu Constantin and Florin Constantin ( 2017 ) Collaborative Robots and Knowledge Management - A Short Review .
Hanyang University as related work as an OWL based knowledge processing framework.Keon Kim , Doo Soo Chang and Yong Suk Choi ( 2017 ) Ontology based Human-Robot Interaction Knowledge for Intelligent Services .
An expert may have to apply appropriate data pre-processing , feature engineering , feature extraction , and feature selection methods that make the dataset amenable for machine learning .
As Japan is a very mountainous country , significant differences between the dialects of Japanese exist even in their native vocabulary .
During backpropagation learning for the normal path
In 1936 he was elected a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London .
However , for the millions of cyborgs already equipped with body-enhancing technologies , namely PMs and ICDs , the data mining of these technologies pertains to broader topics of data sovereignty , data ownership rights , privacy and security , and medical research and development .
Medtronic is using the collected PM data and is working with researchers at Johns Hopkins Hospital and Washington University School of Medicine in order to help answer specific questions about heart disease , such as whether weak hearts cause arrhythmias or vice versa .
Quantum clustering ( QC ) , is a Cluster analysis algorithm accomplished by substituting each point in a given dataset with a Gaussian .
Gradient descent is then used to " move " the points to their local minima .
QC has not been evaluated against traditional modern clustering algorithms , aside from Jaccard index .
Traditional approaches to QC tend toward quadratic O ( n ^ 2 ) , while solutions in deep learning are necessarily linearly limited due to scale and complexity : O ( n ) .
Andrew Fitzgibbon FREng ( born 1968 ) is an Irish researcher in computer vision .
To do this , conversational interfaces use natural language processing ( NLP ) to allow computers to understand , analyze , and create meaning from human language .
NLU allows for sentiment analysis and conversational searches which allows a line of questioning to continue , with the context carried throughout the conversation .
While there are a variety of interface brands , to date , there are two main categories of conversational interfaces ; voice assistants and chatbot s .
Introduced in October 2011 , Apple 's Siri was one of the first voice assistants widely adopted .
A chatbot is a web- or mobile-based interface that allows the user to ask questions and retrieve information .
The complexity to which a chatbot question answering depends on the development of the back end. with hard-coded answers has a smaller base on information and corresponding skills .
Common Voice appeared as a response to the language assistants of large companies such as Amazon Echo , Siri or Google Assistant .
On December 5 , 2017 , the DeepMind team released a preprint introducing AlphaZero , which within 24 hours of training achieved a superhuman level of play in these three games by defeating world-champion programs Stockfish , elmo , and the 3-day version of AlphaGo Zero .
AlphaZero ( AZ ) is a more generalized variant of the AlphaGo Zero ( AGZ ) algorithm , and is able to play shogi and chess as well as Go .
AlphaZero was trained solely via self-play , using 5,000 first-generation TPUs to generate the games and 64 second-generation TPUs to train the neural network s .
AlphaZero is a generic reinforcement learning algorithm
In 2000 , Geoffrey Hinton et al. described an imaging system that combined image segmentation and recognition into a single inference process using parse tree s .
That system proved useful on the MNIST database handwritten digit database .
The approach was claimed to reduce error rates on MNIST database and to reduce training set sizes .
Unsupervised learning capsnets learn a global linear manifold between an object and its pose as a matrix of weights .
For each possible parent , each child computes a prediction vector by multiplying its output by a weight matrix ( trained by backpropagation ) .
Learning is Supervised learning .
To allow for multiple entities , a separate Hinge loss is computed for each capsule .
CapsNets are claimed to have four major conceptual advantages over convolutional neural network s ( CNN ) :
In September 2014 , UAVs were used for 3D mapping of the above-ground ruins of Aphrodisias and the Gallic Empire remains in Switzerland .
In 2014 , the prime minister of the United Arab Emirates announced that the UAE planned to launch a fleet of UAVsref name = FT _ UAEKerr , Simon ( 11 February 2014 ) Reuters , Retrieved 12 February 2014
In June 2012 , World Wide Fund for Nature ( WWF ) announced it would begin using UAVs in Nepal to aid conservation efforts following a successful trial of two aircraft in Chitwan National Park .
In March 2013 , UAV conservation nonprofit ShadowView , founded by former members of Sea Shepherd Conservation Society , worked with antihunting charity the League Against Cruel Sports to expose illegal fox hunting in the UK .
In 2014 , Will Potter proposed using UAVs to monitor conditions on factory farms .
In June 2014 , the FAA acknowledged that it had received a petition from the Motion Picture Association of America seeking approval for the use of UAVs for aerial photography .
Various kinds of convolutional neural network s tend to be the best at recognizing the images in CIFAR-10 .
In 1994 , together with another computer department student Hormoz Shahrzad presented their research titled " Introducing a dynamic problem solving scheme based on a learning algorithm in artificial life environments " at the first Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Conference on Computational Intelligence held at Orlando .
Hodjat received a PhD in Artificial intelligence from Kyushu University nowiki / in 2003 During his time there , he published several works on adaptive agent oriented software architecture { { cite web
( named after the historic Japanese Dejima artificial island ) .
In 2007 , he teamed with Antoine Blondeau ( former CEO of Dejima ) and Adam Cheyer ( Dejima 's vice president and Chief Architect of the CALO project { { cite web
In the following years Hodjat has worked on developing massively distributed computing technology and improving machine-learning technique known as evolutionary algorithm s .
He continues his business and educational projects ( he was on the jury of IBM Watson AI X Prize Foundation { { cite web
Babak Hodjat holds 21 patents in the fields of agent-oriented programming , natural language decision engine nowiki / s , distributed evolutionary algorithm s for asset management and trading and data mining .
Linguamatics , headquartered in Cambridge , England , with offices in the United States and UK , is a provider of text mining systems through software licensing and services , primarily for pharmaceutical and healthcare applications .
ChemAxon can be used alongside I2E to allow named entity recognition of chemicals within unstructured data .
Hanson Robotics Limited is a Hong Kong -based engineering and robotics company founded by David Hanson , known for its development of human-like robots with Artificial intelligence for consumer , entertainment , service , healthcare , and research applications .
The robots include Albert HUBO , the first walking robot with human-like expressions ; BINA48 , an interactive humanoid robot bust ; and Sophia , the world 's first robot citizen .
The robot debuted at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit in November 2005 .
He is able to detect people using an array of cameras and speech recognition technology , decipher their gender , age , and emotion recognition ( i.e. happy or sad ) , and as such , Hanson Robotics has suggested the robot could be of use in hotels or customer service positions .
In 2017 , Starsky Robotics announced that it had raised $ 5 million from Y Combinator , Sam Altman , Trucks VC , and Data Collective to create an autonomous trucking company .
QT Luong ( born 1964 ) is a French-Vietnamese born American photographer known for his work in the U.S. National Parks , as well as for work in the theory of computer vision .
Luong was born in Paris of Vietnamese parents and graduated from École Polytechnique .
PhD Thesis , University of Paris , Orsay. introduced the concepts of Fundamental matrix and Camera auto-calibration in Computer Vision , and for that work , together with Olivier Faugeras and Steve Maybank , he received the initial Koenderink Prize for Fundamental Contributions in Computer Vision in 2008 .
In 2009 , Ken Burns and Dayton Duncan featured him as the only living artist in The National Parks : America 's Best Idea
Paraphrase or Paraphrasing in computational linguistics is the natural language processing task of detecting and generating paraphrase s .
Applications of paraphrasing are varied including information retrieval , question answering , Automatic summarization , and plagiarism detection .
There has been success in using long short-term memory ( LSTM ) models to generate paraphrases .
The encoder and decoder are trained to take a phrase and reproduce the one-hot distribution of a corresponding paraphrase by minimizing perplexity using simple stochastic gradient descent .
The vector representations of paraphrases should have similar vector representations ; they are processed , then fed as input into a neural network for classification .
Skip-thought vectors are an attempt to create a vector representation of the semantic meaning of a sentence in a similar fashion as the word2vec .
The encoder and decoder can be implemented through the use of a recursive neural network ( RNN ) or an long short-term memory .
Thus a simple logistic regression can be trained to a good performance with the absolute difference and component-wise product of two skip-thought vectors as input .
Since paraphrase recognition can be posed as a classification problem , most standard evaluations metrics such as accuracy , f1 score , or an ROC curve do relatively well .
The evaluation of paraphrase generation has similar difficulties as the evaluation of machine translation .
While originally used to evaluate machine translations , bilingual evaluation understudy ( BLEU ) has been used successfully to evaluate paraphrase generation models as well .
The result was presented at the " Efficiency of the Simplex Method : Quo vadis Hirsch conjecture ? " IPAM workshop in 2011 by Oliver Friedmann proposal .
Deep Image Prior is a type of convolutional neural network used to enhance a given image with no prior training data other than the image itself .
The minimizer math \ theta ^ * / math ( typically a gradient descent ) starts from a randomly initialized parameters and descends into a local best result to yield the mathx ^ * / math restoration function .
MUSA ( MUltichannel Speaking Automaton ) was an early prototype of Speech Synthesis machine started in 1975 .
It was able to read Italian in intellegibile robotic voice and also to sing managing up to 8 synthesis channels in parallel thanks to Linear predictive coding technology ..
Egocentric vision or first-person vision is a sub-field of computer vision that entails analyzing images and videos captured by a wearable camera , which is typically worn on the head or on the chest and naturally approximates the visual field of the camera wearer .
It has recently been shown by David Avis and Oliver Friedmann that there is a family of linear programs on which the simplex algorithm equipped with Cunningham 's rule requires exponential time .
fastText is a library for learning of word embedding s and text classification created by Facebook ' s AI Research ( FAIR ) lab fastText uses a neural network for word embedding .
An open source MATLAB implementation of SAMV algorithm could be downloaded .
Deepfakes ( a portmanteau of " deep learning " and " fake "
Academic research related to deepfakes lies predominantly within the field of computer vision , a subfield of computer science .
Deepfakes rely on a type of neural network called an autoencoder .
A popular upgrade to this architecture attaches a generative adversarial network to the decoder .
In April 2020 , the Belgian branch of Extinction Rebellion published a deepfake video of Belgian Prime Minister Sophie Wilmès on Facebook .
The artist worked with Deepfake technology to create a synthetic version of 80s moviestar Ornella Muti , travelling in time from 1978 to 2018.Katerina Cizek , William Uricchio , and Sarah Wolozin : Collective Wisdom | Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Failure to comply could be considered a crime the Cyberspace Administration of China stated on its website .
Unlike other translators , Papago uses a Neural machine translation to learn from its mistakes and learn what type of translations the user requires .
Deep Learning Studio is a software tool that aims to simplify the creation of deep learning models used in artificial intelligence .
Prior to the release of Deep Learning Studio in January 2017 , proficiency in Python , among other programming languages , was essential in developing effective deep learning models .
This includes traditional industrial robot s as well as emerging technologies such as drone aircraft and wearable robotic exoskeletons .
Many workplace robots are industrial robot s used in manufacturing .
According to the International Federation of Robotics , 1.7 million new robots are expected to be used in factories between 2017 and 2020 .
Safety standards are being developed by the Robotic Industries Association ( RIA ) in conjunction with the American National Standards Institute ( ANSI ) .
Time Aware LSTM ( T-LSTM ) is a long short-term memory ( LSTM ) unit capable of handling irregular time intervals in longitudinal patient records .
In 2013 it released Reverso Context , a bilingual dictionary tool based on big data and machine learning algorithms .
Since its founding Reverso has provided machine translation tools for automated translation of texts in various languages , including neural machine translation .
One of the first recorded uses of virtual reality in architecture was in the late 1990s when the University of North Carolina virtually modelled Sitterman Hall , home of its computer science department .
In 1982 Thomas A. Furness III presented the United States Air Force with a working model of his virtual flight simulator , the Visually Coupled Airborne Systems Simulator ( VCASS ) .
The first Canadian virtual reality film festival was the FIVARS Festival of International Virtual & Augmented Reality Stories , founded in 2015 by Keram Malicki-Sánchez .
revoscalepy is a machine learning package in Python created by Microsoft .
The package contains functions for creating linear model , logistic regression , random forest , decision tree and Gradient boosting , in addition to some summary functions for inspecting data .
L1-PCA is often preferred over standard L2-norm principal component analysis ( PCA ) when the analyzed data may contain outliers ( faulty values or corruptions ) .
MATLAB code for L1-PCA is available at MathWorks
The package contains functions for creating linear model , logistic regression , random forest , decision tree and Gradient boosting , and K-means , in addition to some summary functions for inspecting and visualizing data ..
Another closely related package is MicrosoftML , which contains machine learning algorithms that RevoScaleR does not have , such as neural network and Support Vector Machine .
The Ruzzo-Tompa algorithm has been used in Information retrieval search algorithms .
The algorithm uses dynamic programming to progressively build the final solution by incrementally solving progressively larger subsets of the problem .
The following Python code implements the Ruzzo-Tompa algorithm :
U-Net is a convolutional neural network that was developed for biomedical image segmentation at the Computer Science Department of the University of Freiburg , Germany. and its architecture was modified and extended to work with fewer training images and to yield more precise segmentations .
There are many applications of U-Net in biomedical image segmentation , such as brain image segmentation ( nowiki " BRATS " / nowiki Here are some variants and applications of U-Net as follows :
She is a pioneer in teleoperated and autonomous robot systems in applications such as surgery , space exploration , disaster rescue and Self-driving car .
At Santa Clara University , she cofounded chapters of Association for Computing Machinery and Society of Women Engineering .
Split and merge segmentation is an image processing technique used to Image segmentation an image .
Among all the traditional moving object detection methods , we could categorize them into four major approaches : Background subtraction , Frame differencing , Temporal Differencing , and Optical Flow .
In image processing , point feature matching is an effective method to detect a specified target in a cluttered scene .
In addition to object detection , point feature also helps in improving video stabilization .
Buffalo Automation is an Artificial intelligence startup that develops autonomous navigation technology for commercial ships and recreational boats , with the goal to improve maritime safety .
ML.NET is a free software machine learning library for the C # and F # programming languages .
Support for the open-source Open Neural Network Exchange ( ONNX ) Deep Learning model format was introduced from build 0.3 in ML.NET. The release included other notable enhancements such as Factorization Machines , LightGBM , Ensembles , LightLDA transform and OVA .
Microsoft acknowledged that the Python programming language is popular with Data Scientists , so it has introduced NimbusML the experimental Python bindings for ML.NET. This enables users to train and use machine learning models in Python .
SqueezeNet is the name of a deep neural network for computer vision that was released in 2016 .
As of 2018 , SqueezeNet ships " natively " as part of the source code of a number of deep learning frameworks such as PyTorch , Apache MXNet , and .
" What SqueezeNet and AlexNet have in common is that both of them achieve approximately the same level of accuracy when evaluated on the ImageNet image classification validation dataset .
The BFR algorithm , named after its inventors Bradley , Fayyad and Reina , is a variant of k-means clustering that is designed to cluster data in a high-dimensional Euclidean space .
Aside from computer graphics rendering , OptiX also helps in optical and acoustical design , radiation and electromagnetic research , artificial intelligence queries and collision analysis .
RIPAC was aimed to provide efficient real-time speech recognition services to the italian telephone system provided by SIP .
The microprocessor was presented in September 1986 at Den Haag ( Netherlands ) at European Association for Signal Processing conference .
The microprocessor was designed by the italian companies CSELT and ELSAG and was produced by SGS : a combination of Hidden Markov Model and Dynamic Time Warping algorithms was used for processing speech signals .
His work in the fields of computer vision and deep learning have been featured in press releases and academic journal reviews .
Leela Chess Zero ( abbreviated as LCZero , lc0 ) is a free , open-source , and neural network -based chess engine and distributed computing project .
Leela Chess Zero was adapted from the Leela Zero Go engine , also to verify the methods in the AlphaZero paper as applied to the game of chess .
Leela Chess Zero then learns how to play chess by reinforcement learning from repeated self-play , using a distributed computing network coordinated at the Leela Chess Zero website .
In December 2018 , the AlphaZero team published a new paper in " Science " magazine revealing previously undisclosed details of the architecture and training parameters used for AlphaZero .
The method used by its designers to make Leela Chess Zero self-learn and play chess at above human level is reinforcement learning .
This is a machine-learning algorithm , mirrored from AlphaZero to be used by Leela Chess Zero , to maximize reward to make the engine a better chess player through self-play .
AllieStein is a combination of two different spinoffs from Leela : Allie , which uses the same evaluation network as Leela , but has a unique search algorithm for exploring different lines of play , and Stein , an evaluation network which has been trained using supervised learning based on existing game data featuring other engines ( as opposed to the unsupervised learning which Leela uses ) .
The NVIDIA Deep Learning Accelerator ( NVDLA ) is an open source neural network accelerator created by NVIDIA .
( 1992 ) in computer science under the direction of Ronald C. Arkin .
Matrix factorization is a class of collaborative filtering algorithms used in recommender system s ! -- I agree that this is the description but I think the wording should be different .
His work is primarily in machine learning .
Similar to the traditional sentiment analysis , one of the most basic task in multimodal sentiment analysis is sentiment classification , which classifies different sentiments into categories such as positive , negative , or neutral .
Feature engineering , which involves the selection of features that are fed into machine learning algorithms , plays a key role in the sentiment classification performance.ref name = " s7 " In multimodal sentiment analysis , a combination of different textual , audio , and visual features are employed.ref name = " s1 " /
Similar to the conventional text-based sentiment analysis , some of the most commonly used textual features in multimodal sentiment analysis are unigrams and n-gram s , which are basically a sequence of words in a given textual document .
Unlike the traditional text-based sentiment analysis , multimodal sentiment analysis undergo a fusion process in which data from different modalities ( text , audio , or visual ) are fused and analyzed together.ref name = " s1 " / The existing approaches in multimodal sentiment analysis data fusion can be grouped into three main categories : feature-level , decision-level , and hybrid fusion , and the performance of the sentiment classification depends on which type of fusion technique is employed.ref name = " s1 " /
Similar to text-based sentiment analysis , multimodal sentiment analysis can be applied in the development of different forms of recommender system s such as in the analysis of user-generated videos of movie reviews
A social robot can either connect to the cloud or fog robot server depending upon the availability of information .
Timothy Leary introducedLeary , T. ( 1987 ) .
Spyce raised $ 21 million in series A funding in September 2018 , lead by venture capital firms Maveron , Collaborative Fund , and Khosla Ventures .
rnn is an open-source machine learning framework that implements recurrent neural network architectures , such as LSTM and GRU , natively in the R programming language , that has been downloaded over 50,000 times ( from the RStudio servers alone ) .
The sigmoid function s and derivatives used in the package were originally included in the package , from version 0.8.0 onwards , these were released in a separate R package sigmoid , with the intention to enable more general use .
Appen provides or improves data used for the development of machine learning and artificial intelligence products .
The editors-in-chief are Sander L. Koole ( Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam ) and Klaus Rothermund ( University of Jena ) .
This representation can be used for tasks , such as those related to artificial intelligence or machine learning .
Semantic decomposition is common in natural language processing applications .
This graph is built out of different knowledge sources like WordNet , Wiktionary , and BabelNET .
Future work uses the created representation of meaning to build heuristics and evaluate them through capability matching and agent planning , chatbot s or other applications of natural language understanding .
SenseTime was co-founded in October 2014 by Tang Xiao 'ou , a professor of the Department of Information Engineering at the Chinese University of Hong Kong ( CUHK ) , and computer scientist Xu Li , among others .
During 2015 , many of SenseTime 's papers were accepted into the Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition ( CVPR ) .
In 2016 , SenseTime increased the amount of its selected papers up to 16 in the CVPR Conference , and during this year 's ImageNet competition , the company won first place in the object detection , video object detection , and scene analysis .
It was during this time that a total of 43 publications were recognized by the CVPR and the International Conference on Computer Vision ( ICCV ) .
The company has also established joint laboratories and / or conducted joint research projects with the Chinese University of Hong Kong ( CUHK ) , Tsinghua University , Peking University , Shanghai Jiao Tong University , and Zhejiang University .
In September 2018 , SenseTime became one of the founding members of the Global Artificial Intelligence Academic Alliance ( GAIAA ) , along with the Chinese University of Hong Kong , the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , the University of Sydney , Shanghai Jiao Tong University , Tsinghua University , Fudan University , Zhejiang University , Nanyang Technological University , and 7 other universities .
SenseTime is , as of 27 November 2019 , leading a committee tasked with developing a standard for Facial recognition system in China .
A Python library called and maintained by Frantz Martinache to facilitate the extraction and interpretation of kernel-phases .
In 2013 , the Electronic Frontier Foundation filed a Freedom of Information Act request to learn more about SGT STAR , including input and output patterns ( questions and answers ) , usage statistics , contracts , and privacy policies .
Sentence embedding is the collective name for a set of techniques in natural language processing ( NLP ) where sentences are mapped to vectors of real numbers
Sentence embedding is used by the machine learning software libraries PyTorch
In computer vision , object co-segmentation is a special case of image segmentation , which is defined as jointly segmenting semantically similar objects in multiple images or video frames .
It is often challenging to extract segmentation masks of a target / object from a noisy collection of images or video frames , which involves Object detection coupled with Image segmentation .
Initialized with saliency based image segmentation on individual frames , this method first performs temporal action localization step with a cascaded 3D Convolutional neural network and Long short-term memory , and pinpoints the starting frame and the ending frame of a target action with a coarse-to-fine strategy .
ispace is currently headquartered in Tokyo , Japan with offices in the United States and Luxembourg .
Teknofest Istanbul ( ) , is a festival of aviation , aerospace and technology was held at Istanbul New Airport of Turkey between 20-23 September 2018 .
It was developed by a team at the MIT-IBM Watson AI Lab and first presented at the 2018 International Conference on Learning Representations .
As visual spatial attention mechanism allows human and / or computer vision systems to focus more on semantically more substantial regions in space , visual temporal attention modules enable Machine learning algorithms to emphasize more on critical video frames in video analytics tasks , such as human action recognition .
In Convolutional neural network -based systems , the prioritization introduced by the attention mechanism is regularly implemented as a linear weighting layer with parameters determined by labeled training data .
Besides , each stream in the proposed ATW CNN framework is capable of end-to-end training , with both network parameters and temporal weights optimized by Stochastic gradient descent with Backpropagation .
In contrast with other cluster analysis techniques , automatic clustering algorithms can determine the optimal number of clusters even in the presence of noise and outlier points .
Automated selection of " k " in a K-means clustering , one of the most used centroid-based clustering algorithms , is still a major problem in machine learning .
Shlomo Argamon received his B.S. in applied mathematics from Carnegie-Mellon University and his M.Phil and Ph.D. in computer science from Yale University , supervised by Drew McDermott .
Israel .
Since the late 1990s , Argamon has worked primarily on computational linguistic analysis of non-denotational meaning , including computational analysis of language stylistics , sentiment analysis , Kenneth Bloom , Navendu Garg , and Shlomo Argamon .
OpenAI Five is the name of a machine learning project that performs as a team of video game bot s playing against human players in the competitive five-on-five video game " Dota 2 " .
The system was developed by OpenAI , an American artificial intelligence ( AI ) research and development company founded with the mission to develop safe AI in a way that benefits humanity .
The project has also been compared to a number of other similar cases of AI playing against and defeating humans , such as Watson on the television game show " Jeopardy ! " , Deep Blue in chess , and AlphaGo in the board game Go .
Each OpenAI Five network contains a single layer with a 1024-unit Long short-term memory
Prior to OpenAI Five , other AI versus human experiments and systems have been successfully used before , such as " Jeopardy ! " with Watson , chess with Deep Blue , and Go with AlphaGo .
Microsoft founder Bill Gates called it a " big deal , " as their victories " required teamwork and collaboration .
" Shootin ' Irons " is a 1927 American silent western film directed by Richard Rosson and starring Jack Luden , Sally Blane and Fred Kohler .Munden p.710
In doing so , the method maintains the computational efficiency of stochastic gradient descent when compared to traditional gradient descent while providing additional information regarding the landscape around the critical point of the objective function .
In practice , SGLD can be applied to the training of Bayesian Neural Networks in Deep learning , a task in which the method provides a distribution over model parameters .
Ride sharing companies like Uber and Lyft utilize artificial intelligence to scale their scopes of business .
Artificial intelligence as a whole attempts to emulate human actions and provide the menial services that humans provide , but should not have to be bothered with .
Košecká earned bachelor 's and master 's degrees in electrical engineering and computer science at the Slovak University of Technology in Bratislava ; her master 's thesis was on agricultural applications of artificial intelligence .
After seeing a conference talk on robotics by Ruzena Bajcsy , she became interested in the subject and moved to the General Robotics , Automation , Sensing & Perception Laboratory at the University of Pennsylvania , where she completed her Ph.D. with Bajcsy as her doctoral advisor in 1996 .
Košecká spent three years doing postdoctoral research on the applications of computer vision to self-driving car s at the University of California , Berkeley , before taking her present position as a faculty member at George Mason University .
Information engineering Professor Paul Newman is the current director of the ORI .
It spans many other fields including human-computer interaction , conversational computing , linguistics , natural language processing , automatic speech recognition , speech synthesis , audio engineering , digital signal processing , cloud computing , data science , ethics , law , and information security .
Voice computing has become increasingly significant in modern times , especially with the advent of smart speakers like the Amazon Echo and Google Assistant , a shift towards serverless computing , and improved accuracy of speech recognition and text-to-speech models .
Around 2011 , Siri emerged on Apple iPhones as the first voice assistant accessible to consumers .
In November 2017 , Mozilla Foundation released the Common Voice Project , a collection of speech files to help contribute to the larger open source machine learning community.Common Voice Project .
She then earned a Masters of Science in experimental psychology and cognitive neuroscience from the Grenoble Institute of Technology in Grenoble and then a doctorate from the same university in 1995 .
Her most recognizable work is the hybrid image , the classic example of which combines the high-frequency outline and detail of Albert Einstein ' s face with a blurry , low-frequency image of Marilyn Monroe ; the latter becomes focused only when viewed from long distances .
She has most recently used deep learning to teach computers how to recognize locations
Argument technology is a sub-field of artificial intelligence .
A few decades ago , philosophical theories of arguments were leveraged to handle key computational challenges , such as modeling non-monotonic reasoning and designing robust coordination protocols for multi-agent systems .
Argument mining , or argumentation mining , is a research area within the natural language processing field .
An artificial debater is an artificial intelligence system which can debate with human users .
An explainable or transparent artificial intelligence system is an artificial intelligence system whose actions can be easily understood by humans .
A legal expert system is a domain-specific expert system that uses artificial intelligence to emulate the decision-making abilities of a human expert in the field of law .
Machine ethics is a part of the ethics of artificial intelligence concerned with the moral behavior of artificially intelligent beings .
In computer science and mathematical logic , a proof assistant or interactive theorem prover is a software tool to assist with the development of formal proofs by human-machine collaboration .
The first scholarly works about the neural bases of social cognition can be traced back to Phineas Gage , a man who survived a traumatic brain injury in 1849 and was extensively studied for resultant changes in social functioning and personality .
In the year 2000 , the term " social cognitive neuroscience " was coined by Matthew Lieberman and Kevin Ochsner , who are from social and cognitive psychology backgrounds , respectively .
It has been found to be involved in emotion recognition from facial expressions , body language , prosody , and more .
ECA postulates that there exist data analysis performed on specific subsets of variables within a larger set whose outputs might be indicative of causality between those variables .
Angelo Dalli ( born 14 April 1978 ) is a computer scientist specialising in artificial intelligence , a serial entrepreneur , and business angel investor .
Dalli was born in Malta and grew up in the town of Birżebbuġa .
After graduating from the University of Malta , Dalli spent time lecturing on artificial intelligence and natural language processing before reading for his PhD at the University of Sheffield under the supervision of Yorick Wilks .
Dalli has published over 20 peer reviewed papers in the artificial intelligence and natural language processing fields , including one of the earliest methods on timestamp extraction from documents that is now commonly used in most email applications .
Angelo setup on of the first companies that applied artificial intelligence in the online gambling industry , called Bit8 ( now part of Intralot ) ,
Uma has been taught how to paint by Mark Mallia , and is creating original artwork using a modified Generative adversarial network that has a third component , the human artist , to produce different learning results than a standard GAN .
Serge Belongie is a Professor of Computer Science at Cornell Tech , where he also serves as Associate Dean
Belongie was a professor of Computer Science at University of California , San Diego between 2001 and 2013 , and held several other faculty positions before joining Cornell Tech as a professor in 2014 .
DeepFace is an example of such a system .
This can be further subdivided in at least Unsupervised learning and Supervised learning .
Extracting features that describe the dynamic texture can be utilized for tasks of images sequences classification , Image segmentation , recognition and retrieval.Comparing with texture found within static images , analyzing dynamic texture is a challenging problem .
On October 24 , 2018 , Social Blade started a popular live stream to show the subscriber difference between T-Series and PewDiePie in an online competition .
She works on machine learning and Bayesian inference .
Broderick was awarded the Evelyn Fix Memorial Medal and Citation and the International Society for Bayesian Analysis Savage Award for her doctoral thesis .
She is a director of Machine learning research at NVIDIA .
Her research considers tensor-algebraic methods , deep learning and non-convex problems .
She was involved with the launch of Amazon SageMaker , an opportunity for developers to use machine learning models .
She launched a petition to Timothy A. Gonsalves to try and convince him at the Ministry of Human Resource Development to end gender segregation in the admissions process at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras .
Tal Arbel is a Professor of Electrical Engineering at McGill University who specialises in computer vision .
She is interested in the application of artificial intelligence in healthcare .
Graph cut optimization is an important tool for inference over graphical models such as Markov random field s or conditional random field s , and it has applications in computer vision problems such as image segmentation , .
For instance in computer vision applications , where each variable represents a pixel or voxel of the image , higher-order interactions can be used to model texture information , that would be difficult to capture using only quadratic functions .
In electronic signal processing , a square law detector is a device that produces an output proportional to the square of some input .
The most common image processing techniques to reduce stripe artifacts is with Fourier filtering .
In a significant milestone for artificial intelligence , AlphaStar attained Grandmaster status in August 2019 .
IBM 's chess-playing Deep Blue ( 1997 ) and DeepMind 's AlphaGo ( 2016 ) were considered major milestones ; some argue that " StarCraft " would also be a major milestone , due to " StarCraft 's " " real-time play , real-time play , partial observability , no single dominant strategy , complex rules that make it hard to build a fast forward model , and a particularly large and varied action space .
As early as 2011 , founder Demis Hassabis called " StarCraft " " the next step up " after games like Go .
Stuart J. Russell assessed that AlphaStar 's 2018 victory required " a fair amount of problem-specific effort " and that general-purpose methods were " not quite ready for StarCraft .
Frequent pattern discovery ( or FP discovery , FP mining , or Frequent itemset mining ) is part of knowledge discovery in databases , Massive Online Analysis , and data mining ; it describes the task of finding the most frequent and relevant pattern s in large datasets .
Implementations exist for various machine learning systems or modules like MLlib for Apache Spark .
Neural Network Exchange Format ( NNEF ) is an artificial neural network data exchange format developed by the Khronos Group .
Automated Pain Recognition ( APR ) is a method for objectively measuring pain and at the same time represents an interdisciplinary research area that comprises elements of medicine , psychology , psychobiology , and Computer science .
The focus is on computer-aided objective recognition of pain , implemented on the basis of Machine learning .
Similar to the field of Affective computing , the following classifiers are currently being used : br
" Support Vector Machine ( SVM " ) : The goal of an SVM is to find a clearly defined optimal hyperplane with the greatest minimal distance to two ( or more ) classes to be separated .
" Random Forest ( RF " ) : Random forest is based on the composition of random , uncorrelated decision trees .
" k-Nearest Neighbors ( k-NN " ) : The K-nearest neighbors algorithm algorithm classifies an unknown object using the class label that most commonly classifies the k neighbors closest to it .
The core innovation of NST is the use of Deep Learning to disentangle the representation of the content ( structure ) of an image , from the appearance ( style ) in which it is depicted .
The original paper used a Convolutional Neural Network ( CNN ) VGG-19 architecture that has been pre-trained to perform object recognition using the ImageNet dataset .
An iterative optimization ( usually gradient descent ) then gradually updates mathx / math to minimize the loss function error :
Then we successively Backpropagation this loss through the network with the CNN weights fixed in order to update the pixels of mathx / math .
In a work by Chen Dongdong et al. they explored the fusion of optical flow information into feedforward networks in order to improve the temporal coherence of the output .
Most recently , Feature extraction based NST methods have been explored for fast stylization that are not coupled to single specific style and enable user-controllable " blending " of styles , for example the Whitening and Coloring Transform ( WCT ) .
She went on to gain a masters in robotics from Carnegie Mellon University ( CMU )
In 2018 Finland director Minna Långström made a documentary about Verma and her work with the Mars rover " Curiosity " titled " The Other Side of Mars " ( original Finnish title " Mars kuvien takaa " ) .
In machine learning , a learning curve ( or training curve ) shows the validation and training score of an estimator for varying numbers of training samples .
It is a tool to find out how much a machine learning model benefits from adding more training data and whether the estimator suffers more from a variance error or a bias error .
In machine learning and statistics , the learning rate is a tuning parameter in an optimization algorithm that determines the step size at each iteration while moving toward a minimum of a loss function .
While the direction toward the minimum is usually determined from the Gradient descent of the loss function , the learning rate determines how big a step is taken in that direction .
To combat this there are many different types of adaptive gradient descent algorithms such as Adagrad , Adadelta , RMSprop , Adam which are generally built into deep learning libraries such as Keras .
StyleGAN is a novel generative adversarial network ( GAN ) introduced by Nvidia researchers in December 2018 ,
StyleGAN depends on Nvidia 's CUDA software , GPUs and on TensorFlow .
In reinforcement learning ( RL ) , a model-free algorithm ( as opposed to a model-based one ) is an algorithm which does not use the " transition probability distribution " ( and the " reward function " ) associated with the Markov decision process ( MDP ) .
An example of a model-free algorithm is Q-learning .
Carl Eddie Christer Odenhammer-Eklund ( " Previously " Eklund " " ) is a Swedish animator & YouTuber based in Stockholm , Sweden .
He 's known for his series of animated shorts on YouTube involving YouTubers such as Markiplier , PewDiePie & Cryaotic .
Industrial applications of human-robot collaboration involve Cobot , or cobots , that physically interact with humans in a shared workspace to complete tasks such as collaborative manipulation or object handovers .
" A.I. Rising " ( also known as , " Ederlezi The film stars Sebastian Cavazza , Stoya , Marusa Majer and Kirsty Besterman .
According to an upcoming main page blurb " the Austrian actor and librettist Karl Lindau co-wrote " The Nazi " , a comedy , in 1895 .
Qordoba is an artificial intelligence company based in San Francisco , California that provides Software as a Service ( SaaS ) technology .
In 2016 , Qordoba released SmartSuggest , which uses machine learning ( ML ) , natural language processing ( NLP ) , and natural language generation ( NLG ) technology to score text and suggest alternative word choice .
In 2018 , Qordoba released their Content Artificial intelligence , to conduct emotional analysis of written content and then suggest voice and tone updates .
Tomas Mikolov has made several contributions to the field of deep learning and natural language processing .
He is mostly known as the inventor of the famous word2vec method of Word embedding .
Mikolov obtained his PhD in Computer Science from Brno University of Technology ' s for his work on recurrent neural network based language models .
Mikolov has diminished the existential risk from artificial general intelligence by arguing that humanity might be at a greater risk if an artificial general intelligence is not developed .
Lachmi is a scientist who completed her postdoc in molecular and cellular biology at the Stanford University School of Medicine .
Among the investors are Esther Dyson and the Stanford - StartX Fund .
The company uses artificial intelligence , machine learning and natural language processing in order to extract experimentation data from scientific articles , such as the products that researchers used , the companies that supply the products , the protocol conditions that researchers selected , and the types of experiments and techniques .
Ribo uses text-to-speech synthesis for robotic voice conversion .
The ontology structure ( i.e. , data model ) is similar to WordNet structure .
Concepts in the Arabic Ontology are mapped to synsets in WordNet , as well as to BFO and DOLCE .
Prototype methods are machine learning methods that use data prototypes. e.g. , the centroid in a " K " -means clustering problem .
" Introduction to Statistical Pattern Recognition " is a book by Keinosuke Fukunaga , providing an introduction to statistical pattern recognition .
In May 2019 , the Human Rights Watch reported finding Face + + code in the Integrated Joint Operations Platform ( IJOP ) , a police surveillance app used to collect data on the Uyghur community in Xinjiang .
Tang studied at the University of Science and Technology of China and received a B.S. degree in computer science .
Tang is an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers fellow and a general chair of the ICCV in 2019 .
Researchers from the University of Tromsø have proposed different concepts on how semi-autonomous and fully autonomous sailing might be organized .
According to a study carried out by the Technical University of Denmark , it is estimated that an onboard crew member costs in the form of salaries , insurances and on-board provisions around 1 million DKK or $ 150,000 annually ,
The most publicly known application of machine learning in games is likely the use of deep learning agents that compete with professional human players in complex strategy game s .
Deep learning is a subset of machine learning which focuses heavily on the use of artificial neural network s ( ANN ) that learn to solve complex tasks .
Convolutional neural network s ( CNN ) are specialized ANNs that are often used to analyze image data .
Recurrent neural network s are a type of ANN that are designed to process sequences of data in order , one part at a time rather than all at once .
These types of ANN are highly effective at tasks such as speech recognition and other problems that depend heavily on temporal order .
A long short-term memory ( LSTM ) network is a specific implementation of a RNN that is designed to deal with the vanishing gradient problem seen in simple RNNs , which would lead to them gradually " forgetting " about previous parts of an inputted sequence when calculating the output of a current part .
Reinforcement learning is the process of training an agent using rewards and / or punishments .
Reinforcement learning is used heavily in the field of machine learning and can be seen in methods such as Q-learning , policy search , Deep Q-networks and others .
It has seen strong performance in both the field of games and robotics .
Neuroevolution involves the use of both neural networks and evolutionary algorithm s .
Go is another turn-based strategy game which is considered an even more difficult AI problem than chess .
Google 's 2015 AlphaGo was the first AI agent to beat a professional Go player .
The developers have not publicly released the code or architecture of their model , but have listed several state of the art machine learning techniques such as relational deep reinforcement learning , long short-term memory , auto-regressive policy heads , pointer networks , and centralized value baseline .
OpenAI Five utilized separate Long short-term memory networks to learn each hero .
It trained using a reinforcement learning technique known as Proximal Policy Learning running on a system containing 256 GPU nowiki / s and 128,000 CPU cores .
AlphaZero is a modified version of AlphaGo Zero which is able to play Shogi , chess , and Go .
Computer vision focuses on training computers to gain a high-level understanding of digital images or videos .
The students used convolutional neural network ( CNN ) layers to interpret incoming image data and output valid information to a recurrent neural network which was responsible for outputting game moves .
Other uses of vision-based deep learning techniques for playing games have included playing " Super Mario Bros. " only using image input , using deep Q-learning for training .
PCG has been used in various games for different types of content generation , examples of which include weapons in " Borderlands 2 " , Machine learning techniques used for content generation include Long short-term memory ( LSTM ) Recurrent neural network ( RNN ) , Generative adversarial network ( GAN ) , and K-means clustering .
These other approaches include active learning , semi-supervised learning , and transfer learning .
In 2019 , Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Google researchers released cleanlab , the first standardized Python package for machine learning and deep learning with noisy labels .
Researchers at University of Alberta Faculty of Engineering propose a method that applies traditional active learning approaches to enhance the quality of the imperfect labels provided by weak supervision .
Federated learning aims at training a machine learning algorithm , for instance deep neural network s , on multiple local datasets contained in local nodes without exchanging data samples .
A statistical model ( e.g. , linear regression , neural network , boosting ) is chosen to be trained on local nodes and initialized .
The central server orders selected nodes to undergo training of the model on their local data in a pre-specified fashion ( e.g. for some batch updates of gradient descent ) .
Deep learning training mainly relies on variants of stochastic gradient descent , where gradients are computed on a random subset of the total dataset and then used to make one step of the gradient descent .
Typically , first layers performing general pattern recognition are shared and trained all datasets .
Autonomous car encapsulate many processes .
In 2019 , CIOL named SageMaker one of the " 5 Best Machine Learning Platforms For Developers , " alongside IBM Watson , Microsoft Azure Machine Learning , The Apache Software Foundation PredictionIO , and ai-one .
Before founding Eocortex , Artyom Razumkov , the graduate of the Perm State University and the Zvorykin National Award winner
In 2013 , Eocortex entered the foreign market with a sale of its product to one of the Slovakia n entrepreneurs .
Gradually , the Eocortex software has evolved , adding such features as Tracking system , queue length measurement , license plate , video smoke detector .
In 2019 , Eocortex was included into the Ukrainian sanctions list as a company " involved in the hostile activities against Ukraine .
In 2019 , In Belgium , Eocortex operates 400 Politiezone Arro Ieper ( the police department of the district of Ypres ) cameras .
Terrified with " fake photo maker " | access-date = June 30 , 2019 } } Fakes can be created using image editing software or through machine learning ( fake pornographic images created this way are referred to as deepfake s ) .
In 2012 , when Liu Yifei ' s fake nude photography released on the network , Liu Yifei Red Star Land Company declared a legal search to find out who created and released the photos .
In the same year , Chinese actor Huang Xiaoming released nude photos that sparked public controversy , but they were ultimately proven to be real pictures .
Information reveals that : " Rain 's nude photo was released from Kim Tae-hee ' s lost phone .
Lotfi A. Zadeh introduced the concepts of fuzzy variables and fuzzy sets.ref name = " zadeh2 "
" Distill " , is a peer-reviewed scientific journal covering machine learning .
Otter was trained with machine learning on millions of hours of audio recordings .
In April 2018 , it was reported that FamilySearch was using Rekognition to enable their users to " see which of their ancestors they most resemble based on family photographs .
In 2018 , MIT researchers Joy Buolamwini and Timnit Gebru published a study called Gender Shades .
Nakhoda is a United Kingdom company founded in May 2017 , currently owned by Linklaters LLP .
Nakhoda is a tech company that targets the application of technology and Artificial Intelligence in the legal field .
The team behind ChatBot has created a natural language processing engine that incorporates conversation context like dialogue history , location and user preferences .
ChatBot has been designed as a universal and comprehensive framework for building Artificial intelligence chatbots .
Drag and drop graphic interface While creating bot scenarios , users can choose one of two offered matching systems : based on machine learning or keywords .
The platform uses natural language understanding that receives data from customer queries and tries to find the most suitable answer based on collected information and the current user path .
ChatBot also includes an analytics tool that can measure the engagement or session metrics like Pattern recognition , latency issues , etc .
The citizens offered the Jewel as an ex-voto to the " Madonna of Mount Berico " ref name = B82 / in order to avoid the Plague of Saint Charles Borromeo that had spread two years before in the Duchy of Milan with some infection cases in the western cities of the Republic of Venice and up to Verona .
CVAT supports the primary tasks of Supervised learning : object detection , image classification , and image segmentation .
CVAT has many powerful features , including interpolation of bounding boxes between key frames , semi-automatic annotation using Deep learning models both in , etc .
CVAT is written mainly in JavaScript , HTML , CSS , Python , and Django .
Research stagnated after machine learning research by Marvin Minsky and Seymour Papert ( 1969 ) ,
A key trigger for renewed interest in neural networks and learning was Werbos ' s ( 1975 ) backpropagation algorithm that enabled practical training of multi-layer networks .
Support vector machine and simpler methods such as linear classifiers gradually overtook neural networks .
The vanishing gradient problem affects many-layered feedforward networks that used backpropagation and also Recurrent neural network ( RNNs ) .
To overcome this problem , Jürgen Schmidhuber adopted a multi-level hierarchy of networks ( 1992 ) pre-trained one level at a time by unsupervised learning and fine-tuned by backpropagation .
Geoffrey Hinton et al .
This became known as " deep learning .
Between 2009 and 2012 , Recurrent neural network and deep feedforward neural networks developed in Jürgen Schmidhuber ' s research group won eight international competitions in pattern recognition and machine learning .
Ciresan and colleagues won pattern recognition contests , including the IJCNN 2011 Traffic Sign Recognition Competition , on benchmarks such as traffic sign recognition ( IJCNN 2012 ) , or the MNIST database .
Researchers demonstrated ( 2010 ) that deep neural networks interfaced to a hidden Markov model with context-dependent states that define the neural network output layer can drastically reduce errors in large-vocabulary speech recognition tasks such as voice search .
An artificial neural network ( ANN ) combines biological principles with advanced statistics to solve problems in domains such as pattern recognition and game-play .
A widely used type of composition is the " nonlinear weighted sum " , where math \ textstyle f ( x ) = K \ left ( \ sum _ i w _ i g _ i ( x ) \ right ) / math , where math \ textstyle K / math ( commonly referred to as the activation function ) is some predefined function , such as the hyperbolic tangent , sigmoid function , softmax function , or rectifier function .
Networks with cycles are commonly called Recurrent neural network .
Pseudocode for a stochastic gradient descent algorithm for training a three-layer network ( one hidden layer ) :
Since their introduction , Transformers have become the basic building block of most state-of-the-art architectures in NLP , replacing gated recurrent neural network models such as the long short-term memory ( LSTM ) in many cases .
This led to the development of pretrained systems such as BERT ( Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers ) and GPT-2 , which have been trained with huge amounts of general language data prior to being released , and can then be fine-tune trained to specific language tasks .
The primary motivations for the development of the Transformer were to reduce path lengths , thereby making long-range dependencies in sequences easier to learn , and to allow for more parallelization than previous models such as recurrent neural network s and convolutional neural network s ( CNNs ) .
Various architectures of recurrent neural networks have been successful in performing tasks relating to sequences , due to their ability to process inputs of arbitrary length , rather than being restricted to fixed length inputs like those of multilayer perceptron s .
Long short-term memory ( LSTM ) models , a variant of RNNs , attempt to alleviate this issue by choosing very specific operations to perform in the recurrent portion of the network .
Transformers typically undergo semi-supervised learning involving Unsupervised learning pretraining followed by Supervised learning fine-tuning .
The Transformer finds most of its applications in the field of natural language processing ( NLP ) , for example the tasks of machine translation and time series prediction .
In 2015 , the company partnered with the World Bank to improve its poverty data , using building height and rooftop material analysis to approximate wealth .
The DeepL Translator is a machine translation service launched in August 2017 .
Initial reception of the DeepL Translator was generally positive , with " TechCrunch " appreciating it for the accuracy of its translations , stating that it was ' more accurate ' than Google Translate ,
In recognition to services of Abdul-Majid Bhurgri , who is the founder of Sindhi computing , Government of Sindh has established the institute after his name .
It was published by the FGED Society in 2001 and was the first published minimum information standard for high-throughput experiments in the life sciences .
Bossa Nova Robotics is a startup robotics company that manufactures inventory control robots for use in retail stores .
Bossa Nova was founded in 2005 by students attending Carnegie Mellon University , spinning out from their Robotics Institute .
Conversica is a United States cloud software technology company .
Powered by Artificial Intelligence , the Intelligent Virtual Assistants ( IVA ) interact with leads and customers in a human-like way , like an entry level employee .
Conversica is a pioneer in providing Artificial Intelligence lead engagement software for marketing and sales organizations .
The IVAs are built on an Intelligent Automation platform that leverages natural language understanding , natural language processing , natural language generation , deep learning and machine learning .
In 2007 a longer cover version featuring the Japanese singer Nomico was released in the album " Lovelight " by the artists group Alstroemeria Records , lead by
Nanosemantics Lab is a Russian IT company specializing in the creation of interactive dialog interfaces , particularly chatbots , based on artificial intelligence ( AI ) for use in communications related to businesses and industry .
The company was founded in 2005 by Ashmanov & Partners and Natalya Kaspersky .
SQNL finds application in various machine learning architectures which include but not limited to Multilayer perceptron ( Single Layer Feed Forward Networks ) , LSTM and so on .
Computation of SQNL using Python code :
Here is an example of MATLAB code : The full implementation of SQNL as a toolbox in MATLAB is available on this project 's repository
Statistical implicative analysis ( S.I.A ) is a non-symmetric data analysis method combining subjects or objects with various types of variables : boolean , numerical , modal , vectorial , sequential , interval , fuzzy and ranked .
Evolving with the extensions to the theory , it is developed by Raphaël Couturier , Professor at the University of Franche-Comté .
OpenVINO toolkit ( Open Visual Inference and Neural network Optimization ) is a free toolkit facilitating the optimization of a Deep Learning model from a framework and deployment using an inference engine onto Intel hardware ..
OpenVINO is written in C + + and Python .
Such constraint can be efficiently enforced on a per-scanline basis by using dynamic programming ( e.g. the Viterbi algorithm ) , but such limitation can still introduce streaking artefacts in the depth map , because little or no regularisation is performed across scanlines.Hirschmüller ( 2005 ) , p .
Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers ( BERT ) is a technique for NLP ( Natural Language Processing ) pre-training developed by Google .
When BERT was published , it achieved state-of-the-art performance on a number of natural language understanding tasks :
The reasons for BERT 's state-of-the-art performance on these natural language understanding tasks are not yet well understood .
His research at Berkeley has focused on the intersection of high performance computing and machine learning .
Keutzer was named a Fellow of the IEEE in 1996 .
It currently includes four sub-competitions - the RoboMaster Robotics Competition , the RoboMaster Technical Challenge , the ICRA RoboMaster AI Challenge , and the new RoboMaster Youth Tournament .
It later integrated with a summer camp for university students intern ing at DJI , with only 24 participants , who were tasked to achieve autonomous moving target shooting using computer vision .
This is also the first year Robomasters included teams from outside Mainland China , with universities from Hong Kong , Macao and Taiwan participating .
In addition , RoboMaster also added the Technical Challenge series , and co-hosted with the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers ( IEEE ) the first IRCA AI Challenge in Singapore .
The RoboMaster matches focus on the ability to apply and practise comprehensive knowledges in science and engineering disciplines , and require the participating members to fully integrate robotics disciplines such as machine vision , embedded system , mechanical engineering , inertial navigation and human-computer interaction , etc .
Teams outside Mainland China ( Hong Kong , Singapore , Japan , United States , Canada , etc .
The annual robotics challenge was previously held in Singapore ( 2017 ) , Brisbane ( 2018 ) , Montreal ( 2019 ) .
Both Scratch and Python are employed by DJI along with software modules to help the end user s learning coding .
The show was shot from August 13-26 in Dapeng New District , and features a science contest between a " Champions " team ( consisting of members from the RoboMaster 2017 winner South China University of Technology ) and an " Avengers " team ( consists of RoboMaster 2017 finalists from other universities ) , with each episode featuring 5 rounds of technical challenges .
Neuton is a neural network framework and automated machine learning ( AutoML ) solution developed by Bell Integrator .
Neuton allows users to build , train and deploy neural network models to solve problems of multivariate regression and classification .
Xu Li is a co-founder and current CEO of SenseTime , an artificial intelligence ( AI ) company .
Xu received his doctorate in computer science from the Chinese University of Hong Kong .
He obtained both his bachelor 's and master 's degrees in computer science from Shanghai Jiao Tong University .
Xu has published more than 50 papers at international conferences and in journals in the field of computer vision and won the Best Paper Award at the international conference on Non-Photorealistic Rendering and Animation ( NPAR ) 2012 and the Best Reviewer Award at the international conferences Asian Conference on Computer Vision ACCV 2012 and International Conference on Computer Vision ( ICCV ) 2015 .
Bonnie Jean Dorr is an American computer scientist specializing in natural language processing and machine translation .
Kristian Kersting ( born November 28 , 1973 in Cuxhaven , Germany ) , Germany and heads the Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Lab ( AIML ) .
Kersting studied computer science at the University of Freiburg , where he received his Ph.D. in 2006 .
He was a visiting postdoctoral researcher at the KU Leuven and a postdoctoral associate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology ( MIT ) .
His advisor at MIT was Leslie P. Kaelbling .
Roni Rosenfeld is an Israeli-American Computer science and computational epidemiologist , currently serving as the head of the
Rosenfeld received his B.Sc. in Mathematics and Physics from Tel Aviv University in 1985 .
From 2002-2003 , Rosenfeld was a visiting professor at the University of Hong Kong .
In computer vision , the inverse depth parametrization is a parametrization used in methods for 3D reconstruction from multiple images such as simultaneous localization and mapping ( SLAM ) .
( 2017 ) such as object detection , Chen et al .
( 2017 ) and natural language processing .Cui et al .
Model compression , a methodology to compress the knowledge of multiple models into a single neural network , was introduced in 2006 .
Knowledge distillation consists of training a smaller network , called " distilled model " , on a dataset called transfer set ( different than the dataset used to train the large model ) using as loss function the cross entropy between the output of the distilled model math \ mathbf { y } ( \ mathbf { x } | t ) / math and the output math \ hat { \ mathbf { y } } ( \ mathbf { x } | t ) / math produced by the large model on the same record ( or the average of the individual outputs , if the large model is an ensemble ) , using a high value of softmax temperature matht / math for both models
In 1996 , Gatt entered the University of Malta , where he earned a bachelor 's degree in sociology , within the field of Legal & Humanistic Studies .
Since 2010 , Gatt has served at the University of Malta as specialist examiner of doctoral theses covering various aspects of ICT law including subject-specific analysis and examination of theses submitted in partial fulfillment of a postgraduate degree in Law .
He is also a board member of the " Humanity 2.0 Foundation " , an organization operating from the Pontifical Lateran University in Rome .
" Fragmentary " is a 2019 Australia thriller film written , directed and starring Jace Pickard .
When a clearly defined goal exists ( such as a light source ) , computer vision can be used to find a path to the goal and grow a robot along that path .
In 1966 , West began studying at Mundelein College in the Weekend College to earn a Bachelor 's degree in labor education , and when she graduated two years later , she suggested that Mundelein College invite Civil Rights movement and labor activist Addie L. Wyatt to give the commencement address , and West was given the role of introducing her .
He is an Honorary Reader at the University of Sheffield , UK , Visiting Research Fellow with The Open University , and adjunct Professor with the Brain and Mind Programme at the University of Crete .
His heroes were the cricketer Geoff Boycott , the fictional aviator Biggles , and the zoologist and humorous author Gerald Durrell .
His undergraduate work was done at Open University , where he took courses in literature , ancient history , and philosophy .
He defended this position in the 2014 " consciousness cruise " off Greenland sponsored by Dimitri Volkov and the Moscow Center for Consciousness Studies .
It was a floating conference that featured prominent philosophers of mind such as David Chalmers , Paul Churchland , Patricia Churchland , Andy Clark , Daniel Dennett , Philip Goff , Nicholas Humphrey , Jesse Prinz , and Derk Pereboom .
He labeled as " sceptics " Susan Blackmore , Nicholas Humphrey , Pete Mandik , and Eric Schwitzgebel .
Mitra robot was used in Tathva 19 , the annual techno- management fest organised by National Institute of Technology Calicut ( National Institutes of technology ) that was held at Mukkom Kozhikode on 18 October 2019.It is a three-day techno- management festival in south-India.This robot was used to greet the dignitaries and also delivered speech thanking Tathva team .
LeNet5 was one of the earliest Convolutional neural network and promoted the development of deep learning .
In 1989 , Yann LeCun et al. at Bell Labs first applied the Backpropagation to practical applications , and believed that the ability to learn network generalization could be greatly enhanced by providing constraints from the task 's domain .
Their research continued for the next eight years , and in 1998 , Yann LeCun , Leon Bottou , Yoshua Bengio , and Patrick Haffner reviewed various methods on handwritten character recognition in paper , and used standard handwritten digits to identify benchmark tasks .
When Yann LeCun , et al raised the initial form of LeNet in 1989 .
The LeNet5 means the emergence of Convolutional neural network and defines the basic components of Convolutional neural network .
But it was not popular at that time because of the lack of hardware equipment , especially GPU ( Graphics Processing Unit , a specialized electronic circuit designed to rapidly manipulate and alter memory to accelerate the creation of images in a frame buffer intended for output to a display device ) and other algorithm , such as SVM can achieve similar effects or even exceed the LeNet .
Until the success of AlexNet in 2012 , Convolutional neural network has become the best choice for computer vision applications and many different types of Convolutional neural network has been raised , such as the R- Convolutional neural network series .
Nowadays , Convolutional neural network models are quite different from Lenet , but they are all developed on the basis of Lenet .
In the study of artificial neural network s ( ANNs ) , the neural tangent kernel ( NTK ) is a kernel which describes the evolution of deep learning during their training by gradient descent .
When optimizing the parameters math \ theta \ in \ mathbb { R } ^ { P } / math of an ANN to minimize an empirical loss through gradient descent , the NTK governs the dynamics of the ANN output function mathf _ { \ theta } / math throughout the training .
The NTK can be studied for various ANN architectures , Recurrent neural network ( RNNs ) , Transformer Neural Network s .
In such settings , the large-width limit corresponds to letting the number of parameters grow , while keeping the number of layers fixed : for Convolutional neural network , this amount to letting the number of channels grow .
The patent documents are split into sentences ( one kind of text segmentation ) , and resultant sentence pairs go through a Statistical machine translation process .
An ensemble of alignment algorithms and tools are applied , including dynamic programming technique which can match 1-to-n sentence fragments into sentence pairs on the basis of length-based and lexicon-based features , as well as bilateral translation probabilities .
The design of the TrimBot2020 robot required a combination of robotics and research and innovation activities .
In a book " " Android Cookbook : Problems and Solutions for Android Developers " , " RGraph is recommended as an alternative to creating Android charts in pure Java .
Cardie became a Fellow of the Association for Computational Linguistics in 2016 .
Scarlett Johansson , a frequent subject of deepfake porn , spoke publicly about the subject to " The Washington Post " in December 2018 .
The company claimed that it could solve complex equations more rapidly and with greater accuracy than commercial solutions such as Mathematica , MATLAB and Maple .
An LSTM neural network then applies its standard pattern recognition facilities to process the tree .
In 2020 , Google released Meena , a 2.6 billion parameter , seq2seq-based chatbot trained on a 341 GB data set .
It does so by use of a recurrent neural network ( RNN ) or more often Long short-term memory or GRU to avoid the problem of vanishing gradient .
Software adopting similar approaches includes OpenNMT ( Torch ) , Neural Monkey ( TensorFlow ) and NEMATUS ( Theano ) .
Multi-objective reinforcement learning ( MORL ) is a form of reinforcement learning concerned with conflicting alternatives .
Another equivalent expression , in the case of a binary target rate , is that the true positive rate and the false positive rate are equal ( and therefore the false negative rate and the true negative rate are equal ) for every value of the sensitive characteristics :
Now let us start explaining the different possible relations between predicted and actual outcome : Confusion matrix
This relations can be easily represented with a confusion matrix , a table which describes the accuracy of a classification model .
We train two classifiers at the same time through some gradient-based method ( f.e. : gradient descent ) .
MuZero is a Reinforcement learning heuristic .
It is the follow-up of AlphaZero .
1 ) AlphaGo - Learn to play GO from human plays .
3 ) AlphaZero - Learn to play any board game from zero without any human knowledge input .
His research at Iran University of Science and Technology was primarily concerned the development of reliable machine learning algorithms for robust diagnosis of breast cancer .
New versions of CSO are regularly released on the CSO Portal. is a python tool for automatically annotating documents with CSO .
Guo graduated from Renmin University of China in 1998 , and earned a master 's degree in statistics there in 2000 .
( Korean : 로보로보 ) is an educational robotics company based in South Korea .
) was founded by 3 university students and a professor at Induk University .
In 2007 , first distribution channels were established in China , and in 2012 , the company established joint venture in Beijing , China which ultimately sold to Shenzhen -listed company of .
Lillicrap attained a B.Sc. in cognitive science and Artificial Intelligence from University of Toronto in 2005 , and a Ph.D. in systems neuroscience from Queen 's University in 2012 under Stephen H. Scott .
In 2017 , Siasun became the first China-based member of the Robotic Industries Association , a United States trade group specifically focused on the robotics industry .
Anodot is an American data analytics company that uses machine learning and artificial intelligence for business monitoring and anomaly detection .
Its development started as a hobby when Shrivastava 's son challenged him after seeing Rajinikanth ' s Robot Movie to make something like that .
This robot appeared in " India 's Got Talent " season 8 where she said Rajinikanth is her ideal hero with whom she would like to work in films when asked by IGT judge Karan Johar .
Rashmi was invited to Indian Institute of Technology Delhi in December , 2018 .
It was claimed that Rashmi is more advanced in functionality than the Sophia , humanoid robot from Hanson Robotics as Rashmi can talk in four languages while Sophia interacts in English only
Magenta is a public Google research team exploring the creative applications of machine learning and artificial intelligence .
Moses received her Ph.D. in computer science at the Weizmann Institute of Science , Rehovot .
She was a post-doctoral fellow in the Robotics group at the University of Oxford from 1993 to 1994 and at the Weizmann Institute of Science from 1994 to 1997 .
Her lab focuses on machine learning methods to model and learn language from textual data .
Her projects actively revolve around : machine reading , question answering , representation learning , and Natural language processing for low resource languages .
Sanja Fidler is an assistant professor at the University of Toronto and Director of AI at Nvidia .
Her research is in the areas of computer vision and artificial intelligence .
Fidler attended the University of Ljubljana , where she received a BSc in Applied Mathematics in 2002 and a Ph.D. in Computer Science in 2010 .
Following that she was a visiting scientist at UC Berkeley and a postdoctoral scholar at the University of Toronto .
Prior to joining the University of Toronto , she was an assistant professor at the Toyota Technological Institute at Chicago ( TTIC ) .
She served as Program Chair of International Conference on Computer Vision 2021 .
She has also served as Area Chair of several machine learning and vision conferences including Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems , International Conference on Learning Representations , Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , International Conference on Computer Vision , and European Conference on Computer Vision .
Agapito received her Ph.D. degree in computer science from the Universidad Complutense de Madrid , Spain in 1996 .
She has published numerous works on non-rigid structure from motion for deformable tracking , dense optical flow estimation , non-rigid video registration , 3D reconstruction of deformable and articulated structure , and dense 3D modelling of non-rigid dynamic scenes .
Lyn Richards ( born 1944 ) is an Australia n social scientist and writer who , with computer scientist Tom Richards , developed the software analysis packages NUD * IST and NVivo .
Richards studied political science and sociology at La Trobe University .
Berg 's research interests are at the boundary of computer vision and natural language processing .
Webber completed a Ph.D. from Harvard University in 1978 , advised by Bill Woods ,
With Aravind Joshi and Ivan Sag she is a co-editor of " Elements of Discourse Understanding " ( Cambridge University Press , 1981 ) ,
Webber became a Fellow of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence in 1991 ,
By revealing such a direct connection between CNN and multigrid method , this opens up a new door to the design and study of deep learning models from a more mathematical viewpoint and in particular the rich mathematical techniques developed for multigrid method can be applied in the study of deep learning .
He is a professor at Imperial College London and Università della Svizzera italiana and Head of Graph Learning Research at Twitter .
Since 2010 , he has been a professor at the Institute of Computational Science , Università della Svizzera italiana , Switzerland .
He has been affiliated with the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study at Harvard University ( as a Radcliffe fellow , 2017-2018 ) , the Institute for Advanced Study at Technical University of Munich ( as Rudolf Diesel industrial fellow , 2017-2019 ) and the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton ( as visitor , 2020 ) .
He is mainly known for his research on deformable 3D shape analysis and " geometric deep learning " ( a term he coined ) , generalizing neural network architectures to manifolds and graphs .
Border Pairs Method ( BPM ) is a machine learning algorithm for multilayer perceptron .
During the machine learning of classification actually the position of the border line is determined .
" It is named after William Anthony Twyman and has been described as one of the most important laws of data analysis .
The law is based on the fact that errors in data measurement and data analysis can lead to observed quantities that are wildly different from typical values .
RiTa.js works alone or in conjunction with p5.js , node.js / npm , and in common web browsers and provides a variety of natural language processing capabilities with a focus on text generation .
scikit-mutliflow ( also known as skmultiflow ) is a free and open source software machine learning library for multi-output / multi-label and stream data written in Python .
scikit-multiflow started as a collaboration between researchers at Télécom Paris ( Institut Polytechnique de Paris ) and École Polytechnique .
Development is currently carried by the University of Waikato , Télécom Paris , École Polytechnique and the open research community .
General Angels joined FIRST in 2007 , and was one of the first teams to do so in Israel .
As of 2020 , the team mentors 13 FIRST robotics teams in Handasaim , including 12 FLL teams and an FIRST Tech Challenge team .
The current version of PDFO supports MATLAB and Python .
Brighter AI Technologies is a German artificial intelligence startup founded in 2017 , .
The company calls this solution Deep Natural Anonymization and aims to provide its customers with advanced video analytics & machine learning capabilities and data privacy at the same time .
Brighter AI develops artificial intelligence and computer vision to reconstruct images .
For this task , deep learning methods such as generative adversarial networks ( GANs ) are employed .
